 
1 - THE WOLFPACK
Directed by Crystal Moselle.
The Wolfpack explores the lives of six brothers who were completely confined from the outside world for 14 years by their father. Winner of the Documentary Grand Jury Prize at Sundance 2015, the film explores the extremes of control, personality, and creativity.
2 - BELIEF: THE POSSESSION OF JANET MOSES
Directed by David Stubbs.
Premiering at the NZIFF, Director David Stubbs explores the story of 22-year-old Janet Moses, who died in October 2007 during a mākutu lifting. Two years later, nine members of Moses’s family faced charges in relation to her death. Using re-enactments and interviews, Stubbs unfolds the complex story.
3 - GOING CLEAR: SCIENTOLOGY AND THE PRISON OF BELIEF 
Directed by Alex Gibney
Interviews with ex-members and historical footage cast an ominous image on the Church of Scientology and its practices in Going Clear. This infamous film is ranked as the second most-watched HBO documentary of the decade.
4 - GOODNIGHT MOMMY 
Directed by Veronika Franz, Severin Fiala
Two young twin brothers are waiting for their mother’s return from hospital. When she arrives, her face is completely bandaged and her character appears to have sinisterly changed. Trapping the viewer in a labyrinth of plot twists, Goodnight Mommy isn’t what it seems.
5 - DEATHGASM
Directed by Jason Lei Howden
A teenage metal fan and his friend, struggling with life in small town New Zealand, stumble across an unrecorded song by one of their musical heroes. The song turns everyone who hears it into demonic zombies, resulting in chaos, blood and heavy metal.
6 - ALICE CARES
Directed by Sander Burger
Alice Cares is a documentary that meets doll-like care robot Alice as she introduces herself to three elderly women who live alone. Delving into themes of isolation, artificial intelligence and healthcare, Alice Cares is also interwoven with the three women’s personalities and developing feelings to Alice.
7 - LAMB
Directed by Yared Zeleke
Lamb breaks ground as the first Ethiopian film ever played at the Cannes Film Festival. Telling the story of a nine-year-old boy and his pet lamb, the film explores the contrast of gender roles in traditional culture.
8 - THE MEASURE OF A MAN
Directed by Stéphane Brizé
The Measure of a Man brings together Cannes Film Festival winner Vincent Lindon, and director Stéphane Brizé to tell the story of a laid-off factory worker and his life as it unfolds.
9 - IRIS 
Directed by Albert Maysles
Designer and unique style icon Iris Apfel shares her philosophies with flair and youthful exuberance. The 93-year-old style icon takes viewers into her eclectic, colourful life, with warmth and humour.
10 - OUR LITTLE SISTER
Directed by Kore-eda Hirokazu