The New Zealand arm of global business consultancy Accenture said local firms should consider how major shifts in the business landscape could be adopted locally.
Managing director Ben Morgan said growth was increasingly found in unfamiliar sectors, as restrictions on travel forced companies to focus on existing locations, rather than expand into new ones.
"International travel restrictions have changed this trend and we now see large companies acquiring businesses in unfamiliar industries to continue their expansions," Morgan said.
He said global companies spent 67 percent of their merger and acquisition budgets on geographic expansion in 2015, compared with a current rate of 16 percent.
"As New Zealand and the world opens up it remains to be seen whether cross-border expansion will continue at pre-pandemic levels, or whether businesses will expand into further categories in their domestic markets."
Morgan said the wider acceptance of e-commerce and reduced retailer footfall was opening opportunities for online businesses, such as Wine Collective Direct which connected boutique wineries to international consumers.
He said another lesson learned from the pandemic was the benefit of partnering with complementary businesses.
"Business partnerships are not new, but we can expect this trend to gain more prominence in the post-Covid world landscape," he said, adding that 60 percent of executives were trying to drive growth through ecosystems.
"Much of the success of these ecosystems will be down to the technology connecting each company, and the ability for customers to gain service and support from each of the partners."
Morgan said recent research also found companies that successfully used data and artificial intelligence achieved nearly three times their return on investment.
"New Zealand is a leader in smart, data-driven technology," he said adding that Coca-Cola's intelligent vending machines invented in Masterton in 2015 had been rolled out across much of the world.
"We can expect data to play an even greater role in the post-Covid world."
Morgan said consumers were also seeking ethically sourced goods and services, which was an important trend for businesses to adopt.
"This is particularly true with smaller luxury items like perfumes and makeup.