The American, speaking after her straight-sets victory over Karolina Pliskova in the French Open first round, said she had had to endure it her whole tennis career.
"Yes, it's obviously been a problem my entire career," said Stephens.
"It has never stopped. If anything, it's only gotten worse."
She did not go into specific details but said even software such as the one available for players at the French Open, which that is designed to block racist comments, could not stop it.
"I did hear about the software. I have not used it," Stephens said.
The software provided by organisers for the first time is able to identify and remove racist and other forms of hate speech, and the French Tennis Federation has made it available to all players at the tournament.
Using artificial intelligence, the software filters out abusive comments on social media platforms such as Twitter, Instagram and TikTok.
"I have a lot of obviously key words banned on Instagram and all of these things, but that doesn't stop someone from just typing in an asterisk or typing it in a different way, which obviously software most of the time doesn't catch."
Tennis players, including greats Serena and Venus Williams, have been the targets of such abuse as have professional athletes in all sports, with Real Madrid soccer player Vinicius Jr. the most notable recent case.
He was on the receiving end of racist chants at Valencia's Mestalla stadium last week and his complaints about Spain and LaLiga not doing enough to fight racism sparked a worldwide wave of support and a national debate in Spain.
Tottenham Hotspur were working this month with the Metropolitan Police to investigate an allegation of racial abuse towards South Korean striker Son Heung-min.
Stephens said the racism had reached a worrying level.
"I mean, obviously when there is FBI investigations going on with what people are saying to you online, it's very serious," she said.
She did not say whether she was referring to a specific case.
"Obviously it's been something that I have dealt with my whole career. I think that, like I said, it's only continued to get worse, and people online have the free rein to say and do whatever they want behind fake pages, which is obviously very troublesome. It's something I have had to deal with my whole career and something I will continue to deal with, I'm sure. That's that."