What has been dubbed the 'Five AIs Act' is backed by a leading China hawk and ex-US Marine, Republican US Congressman Mike Gallagher of Wisconsin.
The bill if passed would see the US set up a working group among the Five Eyes intelligence network countries, which include New Zealand, to create advanced AI systems.
The aim is for them to compare, test and set up AI systems, and accelerate interoperability for intelligence sharing and "battle space awareness".
"It is imperative that we prevent our adversaries, particularly the Chinese Communist Party, from weaponising AI to advance their military ambitions and perfect their repressive techno-totalitarian surveillance states," Gallagher said on his website.
"The United States cannot allow" a future where Chinese President Xi Jinping and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin became the world leaders in AI," he said.
The bill is jointly sponsored by a ranking member of the US House of Representatives Armed Services Committee, Democrat Ro Khanna of California.
Washington news website Politico said, "With support from one of the most hard-line Republicans when it comes to China and a progressive Democratic lawmaker, it's likely the bill would see wide support in Congress if taken up."
Khanna said in late November: "I'm proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation ... to ensure that America leads in the 21st century and that we work with our allies to develop a strategy to advance the benefits of AI while preparing for any potential threats in the future."
Gallagher said the bill would ensure AI was dominated by the Five Eyes Alliance "who share a common mission and shared strategy to use AI for good".
The bill suggests the cross-country working group would leverage commercially available AI tech to rapidly boost the military and intelligence sectors.
Gallagher chairs the powerful US House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party.
The committee has just heard from former Australian security adviser John Garnaut warning that, through TikTok alone, China has the potential for "radically reshaping" global public opinion.
Defence Minister Judith Collins said the government is aware of the proposed legislation and is seeking more information via the New Zealand Embassy in Washington.