Officials told Collins that Honeywell International, which holds billions of dollars in US navy, army and air force contracts, wants to invest to grow in the region.
AUKUS Pillar Two, set up by Washington with the United Kingdom and Australia, aims to accelerate the spread of advanced military technologies among US allies, alongside Pillar One which aims to supply nuclear-powered submarines to the Australian defence force.
A spokesperson confirmed Pillar Two was discussed by Collins and Honeywell, but only in a general way around the country's previously stated interest in finding out more.
"Minister Collins outlined in the meeting that New Zealand is investigating what opportunities there might be for us in AUKUS P2 [Pillar Two]," they said in a statement.
Collins' ministerial diary notes the 40-minute meeting in late February. She also posted about it on X.
It was at a high level, with Honeywell's executive chairperson, its AUKUS director and its Australia country lead.
The post on X and diary do not mention Honeywell's interest in Pillar Two.
This shows up in a briefing released under the OIA, stating that Honeywell executive chairperson Darius Adamczyk "has indicated he wishes to discuss Aukus Pillar 2, space and sustainable technologies".
"Not a large supplier to Defence in New Zealand, we understand Honeywell is looking to invest to grow its activities in the region."
It notes, as earlier government briefings have, that "Aukus Pillar 2 presents both significant capability opportunities, as well as wider interoperability implications" - meaning if New Zealand defence tech gets too out of kilter with the AUKUS three, it could cause big problems.
The minister's diary listed the February meeting as "Honeywell Executives, Defence Officials, Space Official" to talk about "defence, space". The post on X said it was "discussing defence, technology, science and space".
Official documents show the country has been "actively looking" for ways to participate in Pillar Two, which is already working on artificial intelligence in sub-hunting planes and deep space radar.
China said AUKUS was dangerous and had warned New Zealand against being involved.
Collins on Thursday also confirmed she spoke late last month about Pillar Two - among other things - with US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin.
Collins said she told Austin New Zealand was interested in building its understanding of Pillar Two, and would welcome further updates from AUKUS's founding partners - the US, UK and Australia - as they determined how to engage others.
The two "explored areas for further collaboration and security cooperation", according to the Pentagon.
On Thursday, the US deputy secretary of state said the US would likely have something to say next week about other countries engaging with Pillar Two.
Late on Thursday, Collins' spokesperson said: "To reiterate, officials continue to discuss what opportunities might exist for New Zealand to contribute to Aukus P2. There is no current timeframe on when this might be opened to other partners."
Next week, the US, the Philippines and Japan are expected to announce a big new security pact.
This comes as the US has embarked on a big push to do security deals in the Indo-Pacific, to involve many more commercial firms in the US in defence contracts - including the homegrown Rocket Lab - and to get allies to co-produce weaponry and back-up systems.
Honeywell is variously ranked as one of the top 10 US military contractors and top 30 such firms globally. Most of its billion-dollar contracts are with the Pentagon, including for advanced tech initiatives.