Chair of the Parliament Entitlement Commission Johnson Siapu said the pay increase is long overdue, as the salaries have not gone up since 2019.
The new pay would see the prime minister on an annual salary of SBD $428,560.12 (US$51,000) - a jump of about US$14,000.
Siapu said the new salaries will come into effect in April.
Transparency Solomon Islands chief executive Ruth Liloqula said the increase is "unreasonable".
She told InDepth Solomons it was not the right thing do given the country does not have enough money.
A Vanuatu college principal has taken a firm stance against students' use of Chat-GPT within the school premises, sparking debate among educators and administrators.
Malapoa College Principal Shem Simon said utilising artificial intelligence tools like Chat-GPT could blur the lines between authentic student work and generated content.
The Vanuatu Daily Post reports there are indications that other academic institutions in Vanuatu may be considering similar restrictions.
However, the Principal of Vanuatu Institute of Technology said it is a tool that can improve productivity, but educators need to remain vigilant in ensuring academic integrity.
Serious concerns have been raised around children vaping in Niue at the first Fono Ekepule or parliamentary sitting.
TV Niue reported Social Services Committee Member Ian Hipa said it was too easy for young people to get hold of vapes.
He said the number of students caught vaping at the national high school has increased over the years with four in 2021, five in 2022 and seven last year.
Health Minister Sonya Talagi accused tobacco companies of purposely targeting Niuean children.
She said people understand the harm of smoking tobacco and now it's time to educate people on vape harm.
A former Samoa customs officer who was found guilty of importing methamphetamine has been fined $3,000 tālā.
Pueleo Sefulua Peseta was found guilty in November of importing prohibited goods and convicted.
Peseta told the court he was expecting a car part from New Zealand and was under the impression that the package was the car part.
He had been working with the Ministry of Customs and Revenue for four years at the time of his arrest.
District Court judge, Loau Donald Kerslake explained Peseta did not get a jail sentence as he was not charged under the Narcotics Act, but under the Customs Act.
Tonga's newest cabinet minister, Dr Siale 'Akauola, has been sworn in as the Minister of Health.
Tonga's Parliament held its first sitting for the year in Nuku'alofa on Monday.
Dr 'Akauola replaced Dr Saia Piukala, who resigned on 27 January to take up his new posting with the World Health Organisation in Manila.
He was the Ministry of Health chief executive before he retired late last year.
Japan has assured Pacific leaders that their Fukushima operation is safe, despite a leak.
The Japan-Pacific Islands Forum Foreign Ministerial meeting was held in Suva, Fiji.
Last week an estimated 5.5 cubic metres of water leaked from a valve left open during cleaning work at the absorption tower.
Japan said this is not treated radioactive water, rather the pre-treated radioactive water that is not released into the ocean.
Japan's Foreign Minister's press spokesperson told media after the the meeting that the issue was raised by Pacific states.
Uncertainty remains in the Pacific on the Fukushima release.
Fiji's Trade and Communication Minister Manoa Kamikamica says telecommunication and supporting small and medium businesses are priorities for the island area of Kadavu.
Kamikamica, who visited the island last week, said the goal was to visit businesses they had been supporting and get a hands-on understanding of issues and challenges, and put together strategies to stimulate more economic activity.
Tonga's Legislative Assembly observed a one-minute silence to remember former MP, Lord Fusitu'a, who died in Auckland after a long illness.
Lord Fusitu'a was a Tongan noble and estate holder of Niuafo'ou in the far north of Tonga.
Lord Fusitu'a (51) entered politics in 2014 as the former Noble Representative of the Niuas before he was unseated in August 2020 for long absence in Parliament.