This is a big fat black mark on the majority of farms today.
Since ‘Big Ag’ became mainstream and decided it needed to feed the globe, soil conditions around the world have been deteriorating at a rapid rate due to the focus on optimizing output and not optimizing quality.
How would you like if I sprayed chemicals all over your body? Do you think it might make you ’sick', and result in toxicity and destruction of essential nutrients in your body?
Now you know how the plants sprayed by them feel.
The logical point to be made here is that injecting chemicals (synthetic fertilizers) into the soil, on top of it (pre-emergent herbicides), and then on the plants at early stages (post emergent herbicides), and potentially at the finishing stages (pesticides), well, it’s a wee bit much, isn’t it?
Continuously consuming foods that are absorbing these chemicals is a sure fire way to increase your toxin load.
I know. Real nice, right?
However, this is another reality of how your food is hurting you due to the processes that happen before it hits your plate.
When considering animal protein, you have to realize that the majority of these animals are fed with grains that are treated as above, AND have antibiotics and hormones injected into them. This ruins your inner ecology and digestive system when you consume them, and also screws with your own hormones which can lead to many other undesirable conditions.
Not only that, but processing also alters the structure of some foods in a way that makes them no longer beneficial in any way to the human physiology.
Take cows milk for example. Once pasteurized, it has removed all delicate and beneficial nutrients like enzymes and good bacteria, and it also changes the structure of the fat molecules making them too large to absorb by the human intestinal tract. This offers no benefit to you and actually produces toxins in your gut.
And if you think the food supply isn’t causing an issue, think about all the prescription drugs people are on because of bad food choices and what it would be like if they never had those drugs to manage their pain or conditions. It would look very ugly out there.
It’s time to start thinking of the words garden, natural, organic, unprocessed, and unaltered. Understand ingredients and foods you should avoid, and watch movies like Food Inc and Food Matters to get an idea of what is going on with our food supply, and the cost to you.