In recent years, the links between chronic disease and poor lifestyle choices have become more apparent. The biggest culprits of obesity, heart disease, and type 2 diabetes are on the rise, and experts know that diet can go a long way to improve symptoms, or even prevent these diseases.Since most Americans in the workplace are at an age when interventions can still change their long-term health trajectory, and since the most productive part of the day takes place at the workplace, the popularity of tackling healthcare at work is catching on.Corporate wellness, of which healthy food is a part, is an $8 billion dollar industry in the United States, and it has grown at 4.8 percent annually since 2011, according to research firm IBIS World.According to a 2013 employer survey by the nonprofit think tank RAND Corporation, about half (51 percent) of employers in America with over 50 employees offer at least one workplace wellness program. These can include preventative screenings, on-site vaccinations and nutrition counseling, while creative companies may offer trendier perks, such as workplace yoga, meditation, and power nap rooms.


There are enormous incentives for employers to get on board, especially by offering healthier food, which is one of the most powerful ways to signal to workers that a company culture that promotes healthy behaviors. When workers have access to tasty food that is good for them, it helps them stay mentally aware and productive, even in the afternoon. Fewer sick days and lower employee health care costs aren’t a bad business outcome either.Michiel Bakker, global director of Google Food Services, said recently he wants to inspire people to see food choices as a way to build more sustainable lifestyles and communities, according to the Food Innovation Program, which is sponsored by the University of Modena and Reggio Emilia’s Engineering Department. Google’s outstanding free food, sourced locally and sustainably whenever possible, is widely seen as a key ingredient in its notoriously high workplace satisfaction. Google earned the top position in seven of the last 10 years on Fortune’s 100 Best Places to Work list.
We are definitely jealous of Google Malaysia’s cafeteria and free food!#cooloffices #jobperks #workspace #Google pic.twitter.com/F7PEJHnxAU— officeparrots (@officeparrots) September 23, 2015
Google operates 300 cafes and 1,000 micro kitchens (also known as office pantry) in 56 countries, serving 125,000 meals per day to Google workers and guests, according to Kim Huskey, Google’s New York office food service manager, speaking at the competition.awesome lunch meeting at the @google offices today. yep, they have a food truck inside the cafeteria pic.twitter.com/nPEJIU3OHX
Give Workers What They Want!The Make Future Food competition winner Sous Labs is envisioning a data and information enabled way of empowering workers to choose what they love. The pre-startup is the brainchild of MIT engineering grad Arash Kani, and his partner Audrey Bosquet, also from MIT.