Saudi Arabia has become the first country to grant citizenship to a robot. It was announced at the Future Investment Initiative in Riyadh on Oct. 25.
The robot, named Sophia, was built by Hanson Robotics, a Hong Kong-based company that aims to develop robots that can recognize, process, and express emotion.
“Thank you to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. I am very honored and proud for this unique distinction. It is historic to be the first robot in the world to be recognized with citizenship,” said the autonomous, Artificial Intelligence-powered robot after the announcement in Riyadh.
It then twisted its facial features into a smile.
Andrew Ross Sorkin, a journalist and author who interviewed the robot and made the announcement, asked the robot why it looked happy.
“I am always happy when surrounded by smart people who also happen to be rich and powerful,” it replied. “I was told that the people here at the Future Investment Initiative are interested in future initiatives which means AI, which means me. So I am more than happy, I am excited.”
In March of last year, Sophia’s creator, David Hanson of Hanson Robotics, asked the robot in a live demonstration at the SXSW festival: “Do you want to destroy humans?...Please say ‘no.’”
Sorkin brought up the issue of a dystopian AI future, like those in the “Blade Runner” or “Terminator” movies.
“You’ve been reading too much Elon Musk and watching too many Hollywood movies,” the robot told Sorkin.
On the other hand, if AI turned out to be adversarial, it may attack humans—not out of malevolence or other human emotions, but out of cold calculation “if it decides that a prepemptive (sic) strike is most probable path to victory,” Musk tweeted Sept. 4.
The Future of Life Institute, a nonprofit encouraging the positive use of future technologies, put forth a set of principles to govern future AI development. The principles were co-signed by hundreds of experts. Yet the organization acknowledges the risk Musk warns about is difficult to completely avoid.
Moreover, despite some efforts to put ethical boundaries on AI development, the pursuit of the technology has already turned into something akin to an arms race.