Although the Canadian tech scene struggles to commercialize its ideas and transform startups into large companies, it has nevertheless grown by leaps and bounds over the last decade. Canada now has several robust tech ecosystems, venture capital support, and accelerator programs. It’s firmly on the government’s radar given the programs and grants aimed at boosting hiring and alleviating the cost of training and skills development.
But it still has a long way to go, as Canada does not rank high in innovation performance globally.
“We have always been and we will always be in the shadow of Silicon Valley,” Bury said in a phone interview. “I feel like we’ve always tried to play catch-up.”
One example she notes is Collision, the largest-growing tech conference in North America, with over 25,000 attendees, moving to Toronto from New Orleans.
“I think you’ll see more and more U.S. investment firms putting money into Canadian startups, more U.S. startups and entrepreneurs moving here to launch their companies and build them,” she said, attributing the trend to relatively stricter immigration in the United States.
But what is a challenge for tech is finding qualified staff in a tight labour market—an economy-wide problem with the 5.8 percent unemployment rate in Canada at its lowest since the mid-1970s.
“It’s so much about punching above your weight,” Bury said about working for a startup, as opposed to a mature company. “You work for a big company, it’s a lot of stay in your lane, do what’s in your job description.”
She says entrepreneurs have a blank slate mentality and bring a fresh, innovative way of thinking. They are willing to pitch in to do whatever is needed at a startup—and they often have to in a company with only a handful of employees.
“Total ease and simplicity. I think that’s the experience that every brand has to replicate. Otherwise you’re not going to be able to capture that [millennial] audience,” she said.
One example of a company that is doing just that is the online investment manager Wealthsimple, Bury says.
“Wealthsimple really wins because they have a beautiful online experience,” Bury said. The completely online, seamless, and intuitive process is the type of experience that consumers are demanding more and more. The companies that win understand this, Bury says.