Back in May 2014, Stephen Hawking, along with several other scientists, warned the world: “Success in creating AI [artificial intelligence] would be the biggest event in human history. Unfortunately, it might also be the last, unless we learn how to avoid the risks.
These young talents have also been filtered for their unwavering patriotism or loyalty to the party-state in order to be enrolled in this high-tech field. Nowadays, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) isn’t shy about its intention to dominate the globe both economically and militarily, and technology, stolen mostly from the West, is the necessary means to achieve its objectives.
Since 2014, China has been hosting, each year, the so-called “World Internet Conference,” but this year’s conference fell a bit short in terms of its international impact as only one American executive from the chip maker Qualcomm showed up to speak, compared to last year’s crowded speaker list that included CEOs such as Tim Cook of Apple and Sundar Pichai of Google.
The ongoing trade war between the United States and China has cast a dark shadow over this year’s conference as Western technology companies within China are now seeking a safe exit and new production sites outside China.
For the past three decades, Western companies were hopeful of gaining a profitable market share in China, but that could only happen by paying a high cost in the form of technology transfers under pressure from local authorities.
These forced technology transfers have effectively reduced the competitive advantage of Western companies over time. According to a 2017 report from the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, Chinese theft of intellectual property of U.S. origin costs some $600 billion annually.
Some Chinese netizens have deplored the so-called World Internet Conference, given that their actual cyber world is confined to 9,600,000 square kilometers, the territorial size of China. Now with facial recognition technology and the so-called “social credit system”—a comprehensive surveillance program that grades and penalizes Chinese citizens on their conduct, thus enforcing loyalty to the regime—Chinese citizens are being closely monitored by Big Brother.
In reality, more than 800 million internet users in China are living in an alternative cyber world in which the CCP controls all information, except for the few who are either technically able, or who resort to paid VPNs, to bypass the firewall.
While some of Harari’s underlying arguments are subject to debate, he has raised some critical issues about how technology and AI are able to strengthen dictatorships, as well as the danger of the transfer of authority to machines.
In Harari’s view, the weak link of authoritarian regimes in the 20th century—the desire to concentrate all information and power in one place—may become their decisive advantage in the 21st century, thanks to new technology such as AI.
Harari seems to have a valid point that technology has beefed up the authoritarian control in closed societies these days. For tens of millions of Generation Z, also known as the “Great Firewall Generation” in China, they grow up being accustomed to a different set of cyber reality from those who live in the rest of the world.
As Ma Jian, an exiled novelist, recently put it, George Orwell’s “1984” is “completely and totally” realized in China.
When Pichai, Google’s CEO, professed to the press: “Technology doesn’t solve humanity’s problems,” he seemed to imply that his Google can actually create humanity’s problems, in light of its controversial “Dragonfly Project,” which is aimed at helping the CCP monitor internet users.
“Don’t be evil” had long been a Google’s motto since 2000, but this code of conduct was quietly removed before Google’s parent company, Alphabet, adopted a new motto “do the right thing” in 2015, apparently in an effort to shake off its evil reference. One might ask, “Is Google trying a bit too hard to sell its soul in order to enter China’s market?”
The open sources of Western universities seem to serve well the PLA in its effort to upgrade its military equipment and scale up its war preparation. At a U.S. Senate hearing in February, FBI Director Christopher Wray warned that Chinese “professors, scientists, students” all participated in intelligence gathering.
In 2015, the Obama Administration signed a U.S.-China Cybersecurity Agreement with Beijing, but three years later China is found to have breached almost every item of the agreement and has been relentless in its cyber espionage against U.S. institutions and companies.
Many China watchers often compare China’s Great Firewall with the Berlin Wall during the Cold War era. After all, both aim to keep the people under draconian control inside the walls while preventing them from reaching the outside world.
On the 10th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall on Nov. 9, 2009, German President Horst Köhler spoke out: “The Wall was an edifice of fear. On November 9th, it became a place of joy.”