Education plays an important role in fostering individual well-being and self-fulfillment, maintaining social stability, and securing the future of a nation. No great civilization in the history of humanity has taken education lightly.
The fundamental purpose of education is to maintain humanity’s moral standards and preserve its divinely bestowed culture. It is the means by which knowledge and craftsmanship are imparted and people socialized. Traditionally, the well-educated respect heaven, believe in the divine, and seek to follow the virtue of benevolence. They possess extensive knowledge of traditional culture as well as mastery over one or more trades. Dedicated to their vocations, they believe in treating others with kindness. They serve as the pillars of society, the national elites, and the guardians of civilization. Their extraordinary character and behavior earn divine favor and blessings.
Thus, ruining traditional education is an indispensable step in the communist specter’s plan to sever the connection between humanity and the divine. To this end, communism has adopted various strategies to attack and undermine education in both the East and the West.
In Eastern countries that are home to deep-seated cultural traditions, deception alone is insufficient to brainwash the populace. Communist parties have systematically slaughtered the well-educated elites to stop these bearers of culture from imparting the nation’s traditional heritage to the next generation. Simultaneously, they bombarded the rest of the population with incessant propaganda.
In the West, national histories are younger and traditional roots are relatively new, giving communism fertile ground for covertly contaminating society by subverting and sabotaging education.
The complete breakdown of American education is one of the most distressing things to have happened to the country in the past few decades. It signals the success of communism’s mission to infiltrate and corrupt Western society.
This chapter focuses mainly on the United States as an example of how education in free societies has been sabotaged by communism. From this example, readers may infer how education is being undermined in other countries along similar lines.
In addition to instilling atheism, the theory of evolution, and communist ideology in students, primary and secondary education in the United States employ psychological manipulation that destroys students’ traditional beliefs and morals. It instills moral relativism and modern concepts that convey a corrupt attitude toward life. This occurs across all sectors of education. The sophisticated measures used make it almost impossible for students and the public to guard against the trend.
KGB defector Yuri Bezmenov, introduced in Chapter Five, described in 1985 how communist ideological infiltration in America was nearing completion: “Even if you start right now, here this minute, you start educating [a] new generation of Americans, it will still take you fifteen to twenty years to turn the tide of ideological perception of reality back to normalcy and patriotism.” [1]
The report cites some shocking findings: In addition to US students’ grades often ranking near the bottom compared to those of students in other nations, 23 million American adults were functionally illiterate — that is, they only possessed the most basic reading, writing, and comprehension skills. The rate of functional illiteracy was 13 percent among 17-year-olds and reached as high as 40 percent among certain less affluent groups.
From 1963 to 1980, scores on the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT), the university entrance examination, declined dramatically, with the average verbal score dropping by more than 50 points, and the average math score dropping by nearly 40 points. “Many 17-year-olds do not possess the ‘higher order’ intellectual skills we should expect of them. Nearly 40 percent cannot draw inferences from written material; only one-fifth can write a persuasive essay; and only one-third can solve a mathematics problem requiring several steps.” [3]
The decline in the quality of education in the United States is obvious. Since the 1990s, the term “dumbing down” has appeared in many books on education and has become a concept American educators cannot avoid. John Taylor Gatto, a senior teacher and educational researcher in New York City, wrote, “Pick up a fifth-grade math or rhetoric textbook from 1850 and you’ll see that the texts were pitched then on what would today be considered college level.” [5]
To avoid making the American education system look bad, in 1994 the College Board redefined the scores of the SAT. When the modern form of the SAT began to be adopted in 1941, the average score of the language exam was 500 points (out of a possible 800 points). By the 1990s, the average score had dropped to 424 points; the College Board then redefined 424 as 500 points. [6]
Rousseau believed that people are good by nature and that moral decline is caused solely by social ills. He said all men were free and equal at birth and that given a natural environment, everyone would enjoy their innate rights. Inequality, privilege, exploitation, and the loss of man’s innate kindness were all products of society. For children, Rousseau advocated a model of “negative education” that would leave them to their own discovery. This education was to be absent of religious, moral, or cultural teaching.
In fact, humanity is endowed with both benevolence and wickedness. Without nurturing benevolence, the wicked aspects of human nature will dominate to the point where people consider no method too base and no sin too evil. Rousseau misled many followers with his elegant rhetoric. The deleterious influence his pedagogical theory has had on Western education is hard to overestimate.
About a century later, Dewey picked up where Rousseau had left off and furthered his destructive work. According to Dewey, who was influenced by Darwin’s theory of evolution, children should be weaned from the traditional tutelage of parents, religion, and culture and given free rein to adapt to their environments. Dewey was a pragmatist and moral relativist. He believed that there was no unchanging morality and that people were free to act and behave as they saw fit. Promoting the concept of moral relativism is a critical first step in leading humanity away from the moral rules set by the divine.
In this calculus, the object of education is to mold and guide students according to the educator’s wishes — something not fundamentally different from Karl Marx’s “new man.” Dewey himself was a democratic socialist.
American philosopher Sidney Hook said, “Dewey had supplied Marxism with the epistemology and social philosophy that Marx had half seen for himself and had half sketched out in his early works but had never adequately spelled out.” [9]
Progressive educators make no pretense about their goal to transform students’ attitudes toward life. To achieve this aim, they have overturned all aspects of learning, including class structure, teaching materials and methods, and the relationship between teachers and students. Personal experience is considered superior to knowledge learned from books or teachers. Lectures have taken a backseat to projects and activities.
English poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge once elegantly gave the following retort to this sort of view: “[British radical John] Thelwall thought it very unfair to influence a child’s mind by inculcating any opinions before it should have come to years of discretion, and be able to choose for itself. I showed him my garden, and told him it was my botanical garden. ‘How so?’ said he, ‘it is covered with weeds.’ — ‘Oh,’ I replied, ‘that is only because it has not yet come to its age of discretion and choice. The weeds, you see, have taken the liberty to grow, and I thought it unfair in me to prejudice the soil towards roses and strawberries.’” [15]
The quick-witted poet used the analogy to convey to his friend a principle: Ethics and wisdom are painstakingly cultivated. Leaving a garden untended will cause an overgrowth of weeds. Failing to educate children allows the negative aspects of human nature to predominate as they grow up.
Good and evil are simultaneously present in human nature. Though children are by comparison simpler and purer than adults, they also are susceptible to laziness, jealousy, combativeness, selfishness, and other negative traits. Society is a big dye vat. If children are not properly raised, then by the time they have come to their “age of discretion and choice,” they will have long been contaminated by bad thoughts and bad habits. Attempts to educate them at that point will be too late.
Besides academics, the school was extremely lax on ethics, discipline, and male–female relations; it followed all anti-traditional values. According to a former student who attended in the 1960s, male and female students were allowed to have mock weddings and sleep with each other. Neill allowed staff and students to swim naked together in an outdoor swimming pool, and some staff members were permitted to date students. His thirty-five-year-old stepson, who taught ceramic art, would often bring upper-grade girls back to his room. [16]
Advocates of progressive education claim that students must be placed at the center and allowed to explore on their own, to reach their own answers. The real intention of progressive education is to cut students off from their bonds with traditional culture. Traditional curricula contain knowledge accumulated over thousands of years of human civilization. A negation of teachers’ authority in the process of education is a negation of their role in carrying forward the knowledge of civilization. This is the ulterior motive of communism.
In 1956, American educational psychologist Benjamin Bloom and collaborators published a framework for categorizing educational goals, widely known as Bloom’s Taxonomy. It divided human cognition into six levels, from low to high. In 2001, the levels were revised to be “remember, understand, apply, analyze, evaluate, and create.” The latter three are regarded as higher-order thinking because they involve comprehensive analysis. While withholding judgment on the strengths and weaknesses of the Bloom classification itself, it may be seen that since the framework was proposed, progressive educators have used the goal of cultivating “higher-order thinking” as a pretext to do away with traditional teaching methods.
It goes without saying that learning a large amount of basic knowledge is a prerequisite for any kind of intellectual mastery. Without a reserve of knowledge, the so-called higher-order thinking, critical thinking, and creative thinking can only serve to deceive oneself and others. Bloom’s classification system provides a seemingly scientific excuse for the inexplicable approach of progressive educators.
One tenet in the theory of student-centered instruction is that students should choose what they learn, according to their own interests. The theory also states that teachers should educate students only in what the students are interested in.
Every teacher hopes to make learning enjoyable, but children have limited knowledge and experience, making them ill-equipped to discern what is important to learn and what isn’t. While there are different methods of instruction, teachers must take responsibility for guiding students so they can broaden the scope of their interests beyond that which attracts their immediate attention. Simply catering to the superficial interests of students, as advocated by “student-centered” instruction, encourages permanent infantilization.
Studies have found that there is now a tendency in American society for adults to remain in a state of adolescence longer than in other populations. In 2002, the National Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine defined adolescence as a period from twelve to thirty years of age. Research supported by the MacArthur Foundation went even further and said, based on traditional markers of adulthood, a person nowadays may not be considered an adult until age thirty-five. [20] The education system and media are directly responsible for this extended period of adolescence that many adults have found themselves in.
One of the excuses given by progressive educators for lowering teaching requirements is that with higher enrolments in secondary and post-secondary schools, and with students coming from across society, the average level of attainment cannot be as high as it was in the past. This understanding is wrong. In a democratic society, the object of public schooling is to allow those who otherwise wouldn’t have the means to receive an education the opportunity to do so — not to lower academic standards, which causes everyone’s learning to suffer. Progressivism claims that “useless” classical subjects such as Greek and Latin should be replaced with more contemporary subjects, but in the end, most schools don’t end up introducing high-quality courses in subjects useful for modern life, such as mathematics, economics, and modern history. The curriculum and teaching-method reforms advocated by progressive educators deceive students who are not yet well-informed, as well as parents who defer to schools, teachers, and so-called experts.
By comparing social phenomena in different historical periods, educators noticed that up to the 1960s, common problem behaviors among US students were minor, like tardiness, talking in class without permission, or chewing gum. After the 1980s, there were worse problems, like excessive drinking, drug abuse, premarital sex, pregnancy, suicide, gang activity, and even indiscriminate shootings, which have only increased in frequency since Columbine. These downward trends are a concern to millions in the United States and other countries, but few understand the real roots of these developments, and no one is able to prescribe an appropriate treatment for the disorder.
The divine created humankind and laid down the moral standards that should regulate human life. Belief in the divine lays the foundation of morality for society and underpins the existence of the human world. Communism forcibly spread atheism and the theory of evolution in schools as a means of destroying morality. This is to be expected in communist states like China and the former Soviet Union, but in the United States, it was carried out covertly.
Under the pretext of separation of church and state, leftists oppose the teaching of creationism in American public schools, while on the other hand promoting the theory of evolution. This education inevitably leads the number of religious believers to decline, as children are indoctrinated with the idea that the theory of evolution is scientific truth and not to be questioned.
Since the 1960s, courts around the United States have shut down Bible study in public schools, again under the pretext of separation of church and state. An appeals court ruled in 1981 that students enjoyed freedom of speech, unless the speech was a prayer, at which point it became unconstitutional. [22]
In 1987, students in Alaskan public schools were told not to use the word “Christmas” since it contained the word “Christ.” They were also told they couldn’t exchange traditional Christmas cards or presents. In 1987, a federal court in Virginia ruled that newspapers promoting the gay rights movement could be distributed on a high school campus, but religious newspapers were banned. In 1993, an elementary school music teacher in Colorado Springs was prevented from teaching Christmas carols because of alleged violations of the separation of church and state. [23]
Teaching and test materials in the United States have undergone extensive revision due to the anti-theist orientation of the education system, in combination with decades of political correctness. In 1997, Diane Ravitch, an education historian, was a member of the National Assessment Governing Board, which administered federal tests in schools. She noticed that passages in reading tests had been scrubbed by editors to remove white males as heroes or any references to Christianity. The maxim that “God helps those who help themselves” was changed to “People should try to work things out for themselves whenever possible.” [24]
On the one hand, the American public education system ejected belief in God from schools under the pretext of upholding the separation of church and state. On the other hand, evolution, with its unresolved gaps, was held to be a self-evident truth to be instilled in children who had no mental preparation or defense. Children tend to believe in the authority of their teachers.
In 2013, a school district in Minnesota adopted a project named All for All, which shifts the focus of teaching toward racial and income inequalities. This ideology blames the poor performance of students on systemic racial or income discrimination. The project demanded that all teaching activities be based on advancing racial and income equality and that only teachers and administrators who were deeply aware of the issues associated with these inequalities be employed.
The project was designed for students from pre-K through twelfth grade. Tenth-grade English classes focused on the themes of colonization and immigration, as well as “social constructions” of race, class, and gender. The eleventh-grade framework claimed, “By the end of the year, you will have ... learned how to apply marxist [sic], feminist, post-colonial [and] psychoanalytical ... lenses to literature.” [26]
In July 2016, California adopted a new social science framework for public elementary and high schools. The already left-leaning framework was revised to even more resemble left-wing ideological propaganda. Content that should be emphasized in history and social science courses — like the founding spirit of America, and military, political, and diplomatic history — was watered down or ignored. By contrast, the values of the 1960s counterculture were passionately highlighted and made to seem like the nation’s founding principles. The curriculum also articulated a clearly anti-traditional framework on the subjects of sex and family.
Take the eleventh-grade courses, for example. The new framework claimed its focus was on the rights movements of minority races, tribes, and religions, as well as women and lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) Americans. In reality, religion was seldom mentioned, but much was written about sexual minorities. LGBT groups were included first and were given a significant share of the eleventh-grade history courses. The LGBT portions were written in a tone clearly supportive of “sexual liberation.” For example, in a discussion on AIDS, it was suggested that people’s fear of the disease weakened the civil rights and sexual liberation movements. [27]
This story was often used in the values clarification classes that emerged in the 1970s. This kind of lesson was also applied in affective education, the Lions Quest drug-prevention program, and sex education.
It is said that death education can help students establish the right attitude in the face of death. However, some students who attended these classes have committed suicide. For the same 1990 program, ABC interviewed one student at Columbine High School who said her suicide plans were directly related to the death education she received there. She said the classes made death seem glamorous, “very exciting, [and] very appealing.” [37] Although a causal relationship has not been established scientifically, it is certainly reasonable for parents to suspect and fear that by exposing psychologically immature students to confronting information on death and suicide, some students may be more likely to develop depression and hopelessness, which may contribute to reasons for committing suicide.
Drug-prevention education has also become very popular in schools. However, in 1976, a four-year study on a drug-prevention education course called Decide found that students who took the course picked up drug use earlier and used drugs more extensively than a control group that did not take the course.
In both 1978 and 1985, professor Stephen Jurs conducted a research project comparing the rate of smoking and substance abuse among students who had taken a self-esteem course called Quest and those who had not. The course was designed to help students make wise and healthy decisions, but the results showed the opposite—participation was followed by an increase in drug experimentation. Those who didn’t take the course maintained a steady or lowered rate of smoking and substance abuse. [38]
Neither death education nor drug-prevention education has generated the expected outcome, so what was the real purpose? To pollute children.
The modern concept of sex education was first introduced by Hungarian Marxist György Lukács, founder of the Frankfurt School. His purpose was to completely overturn traditional Western values. In 1919, Lukács was appointed minister of culture in the short-lived Hungarian Bolshevik regime. He developed a radical sex-education program that taught students about free love and that marriage was outdated.
In the United States, Alfred Kinsey, financed by the Rockefeller foundations, published his best-selling Kinsey Reports in the late 1940s and early 1950s. In his since-debunked research, he used pedophiles to conduct sexual experiments on infants and children. Kinsey’s idea that children are “sexual beings” from birth and thus must be explicitly educated in every manner of sexual activity is the foundation of modern sex education. [39]
Rates of sexually transmitted diseases and teen pregnancy began to rise rapidly, especially against the backdrop of the 1960s sexual revolution. Those who wanted to solve such social problems promoted sex education. But in an education system that had already deviated from traditional moral teachings, sex education treated intercourse as disconnected from marriage and instead emphasized the prevention of disease and pregnancy — thus following the Lukács model of sex education by ignoring all moral aspects of sexual activity.
This form of education then became a tool for destroying youth. Students have also been exposed to the extramarital, promiscuous conduct of homosexuality, thus normalizing such behavior. The result of all this has been that the younger generation indulges in what they think is freedom, while in reality, it is a path that turns away from divinely ordained standards. This sort of sex education from elementary school onward has already destroyed the traditional values of family, individual responsibility, love, chastity, honor, self-control, loyalty, and more.
Dewey’s “learning by doing” form of progressive education is a convenient tool for Marxists. The sex-education program Focus on Kids, widely promoted by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), recommends an activity in which teachers organize students to compete in a “condom race,” in which teams of students must put a condom on a sex toy and then remove it as quickly as possible. [40] In another Focus on Kids exercise, the teacher instructs students to brainstorm ways to be intimate. Be Proud! Be Responsible! is another program endorsed by the CDC and promoted by Planned Parenthood and other organizations. The program requires students to role play — for example, pretending to be two female students discussing having safer sex together. [41] To the majority of people who still have traditional values in their hearts, it is difficult to distinguish these supposedly educational activities from child pornography.
The main proponent of the program, Planned Parenthood, is the largest single provider of abortions and sex education in the United States and has a presence in many countries around the world. The organization was founded in 1921 as the American Birth Control League. Its founder, Margaret Sanger, was a progressive socialist who traveled to Stalin’s Russia, where she solidified her belief in eugenics. “We should breed out the feebleminded families who have done and still are doing much social and racial damage,” she said in a draft article. Sanger was also a strong proponent of the sexual liberation movement. She is on record as saying that an extramarital affair she had “really set me free.” [42] She even gave her sixteen-year-old granddaughter the advice to engage frequently in sexual intercourse, saying that “three times a day was about right.” [43]
In a widely used high school sex-education textbook, the author teaches children that some religions believe that sex outside of marriage is sinful, then writes, “You will have to decide for yourself how important these messages are for you.” [45] To summarize, this worldview holds that all values are relative, and that right and wrong are for children to decide for themselves.
Today, U.S. public schools have two basic types of sex-education classes. The first type, which is strongly promoted by today’s educational mainstream (as described above), includes instruction on sexual behaviors, birth control, the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, and the like. The other type teaches young people to control their sexual desire, does not discuss birth control, and encourages abstinence from sex until after marriage.
It is undeniable that social morality, especially the general attitude toward sex, has deviated far from traditional, faith-based morality. The media and the internet are flooded with pornographic content, all of which drags children toward the edge of the abyss. In today’s atheism-dominated education field, most public schools that follow “value neutrality” don’t want to, or don’t dare to, teach children that sex outside of marriage is immoral, nor do they teach children right from wrong based on traditional moral principles.
This misconception of self-esteem is the by-product of the psychotherapeutic style of education ascendant since the 1960s. Psychotherapeutic education ended up indoctrinating a large number of young people with a sense of entitlement and victimhood. Stout delineates the common mindset as “I want to do what I want, how I want and when I want, and nothing and no one is going to stop me.” [47]
Power itself is neutral — those who wield it can do either good or evil. The centralization of power in itself is not necessarily a bad thing, but rather a matter of how the person or institution uses its power and to what end. Centralization in American education has become a major issue due to Marxist infiltration at all levels, especially the central bureaucracy. Under such circumstances, once a wrong decision is made, the impact is extensive, and the few clear-headed individuals who remain cannot simply reverse the damage.
As explained by writer and former teacher Beverly K. Eakman, one of the dilemmas of the centralized approach to American education is that the officials in charge are unable to see how their educational strategies develop in the long term and how great of an impact they have over time. Although some strategies may raise doubts, most people do not have the time, energy, resources, or courage to investigate for themselves. Even if their suspicions are aroused in some cases, without other pieces of the puzzle, they can do little more than obey what they’re told by their supervisors. Everyone thus becomes part of a gigantic machine. It is difficult for them to see the consequences of their decisions for students and society, and as a result, their moral accountability is attenuated. [48] Communism can take advantage of the weaknesses in this system and break down society’s defenses layer by layer.
In communist countries, students from the “bourgeoisie” class are encouraged to sever their relationships with their parents. In addition, exam-centric education extends the time that students must spend in school, thus reducing the impact parents can have on their children.
In Western countries, different approaches are used to exclude the influence of the family from children’s education. These include maximizing students’ school time, reducing the age requirement for children to attend school, preventing students from taking textbooks and study materials home, and discouraging students from sharing controversial topics they learned in class with their parents.
Courses such as values clarification education attempt to separate students from their parents. A parent of a student taking the Quest class commented: “It seemed as if the parents were always put in a bad light. The story would be about a father and his son, say; and the father was always overbearing, always too strict, always unfair.” Oftentimes, the subtext of such courses is “your parents don’t understand you, but we do.” [51]
Sometimes, due to legal requirements, students must first obtain parental consent before they can participate in certain activities. On such occasions, teachers or administrative staff may use misleading and ambiguous words to make it very difficult for parents to know the details of what they’re agreeing to. If parents complain, school authorities or the school district have methods of dealing with the complaint: procrastinating, shirking responsibility, or taking a superior stance. For example, they might say that parents do not have the professional knowledge of educators, that other school districts are doing the same thing, that only your family is complaining, and so on.
Most parents don’t have the time or resources to engage in a prolonged argument with the school or school district. Moreover, a concerned parent is generally only a problem for the few years before their child’s graduation. In the meantime, the child is almost held hostage by the school, and parents don’t dare to offend the school authorities. When parents do protest educational practices, school authorities may label them as extremists, troublemakers, religious bigots, fanatics, fascists, and so on. By doing so, school authorities deter other parents from voicing an objection. [52]
Similar changes to school curricula and teaching materials continued to take place throughout the century. While a minority of people may recognize and oppose these moves, their voices are ignored and have little chance of stopping the planned changes amid the presence of progressive lobbying. After several rounds of reforms, the new generation of students is then separated even further from tradition, making it almost impossible to go back.
Most people involved in education reform sincerely want to do good for students and society, but due to the influence of various communist ideas, their intentions often backfire. The results of many of these reforms end up promoting communist ideas. Just as in other fields, the infiltration through education reform doesn’t need to win all of its battles at once. The success of a reform is not its true goal. In fact, every reform is designed to first fail in order to provide an excuse for the next reform, which is a deeper deviation than the last, further alienating people from tradition. This is the dialectic of struggle — one step back, then two steps forward. In this way, people will not only not regret the collapse of tradition — they won’t even know what it is.
3. Ibid.
15. Samuel Taylor Coleridge, as quoted in I. L. Kandel, “Prejudice the Garden Toward Roses?” The American Scholar 8, no. 1 (Winter 1938–1939): 77.
28. Ibid., 391.
33. Sowell, Inside American Education, 36.
34. Ibid., 48.
36. Sowell, Inside American Education, 38.
37. 20/20, “Death in the Classroom.”
41. Ibid.
42. Margaret Sanger, as quoted in Norman K. Risjord, Representative Americans: Populists and Progressives (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2004), 267.
45. Kilpatrick, Why Johnny, 53.
47. Ibid., 17.