WASHINGTON—“‘Did we get China wrong?’ The issue to me is resoundingly ‘yes,’” says Bill Gertz, senior editor of the Washington Free Beacon and one of the leading journalists on national-security issues.
“This gives you a sense of the power of the influence of policies that had allowed U.S. government and policy elites outside the government to get China wrong,” Gertz explained.
Gertz said that Henry Kissinger, who served as secretary of state during the Nixon administration, represents the wrong way of thinking about China.
“What’s little known is that he has made tens of millions of dollars in China arranging for American businesses to do business in China.”
According to Gertz, U.S.–China policy progressed throughout the past several decades to the point that during the Bush administration, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said, “We want a strong China.”
Although Kissinger is trying to make sure the United States doesn’t take a hard line on China, things are different now with the Trump administration, Gertz said.
The Trump administration, for the first time, announced last week that the Chinese were behind the 2015 attack on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, during which 22.1 million records were stolen, he said.
“During the Obama administration, they refused to blame China,” Gertz said.
“The Chinese are now utilizing those 22.1 million records, including those of every security holder in the U.S. government.
“Its No. 1 priority is not the protection of China: It’s the protection of the ruling Communist Party of China,” Gertz explained.
“And this has been the basis of Trump’s trade war that is now facing with China,” Gertz said, “This is the first time in a long time that the U.S. government is really, aggressively countering this massive program.”
China’s influence operations are also part of the “China Threat 2.0.” President Donald Trump announced at the U.N. Security Council meeting last week that “China is seeking to influence the U.S. midterm elections.”