LONDON—Facial-recognition technology similar to that used in authoritarian countries such as China had a two-day trial by police on the streets of London.
The Metropolitan Police scanned the faces of Christmas shoppers in the central London shopping districts of Soho, Piccadilly Circus, and Leicester Square on Dec. 17 and 18.
Privacy campaign group Big Brother Watch described the police’s use of the technology as “authoritarian, dangerous, and lawless.” The group said new information obtained using Freedom of Information requests shows that the facial-recognition technology employed by the police is 100 percent inaccurate, misidentifying innocent members of the public.
Cameras are able to scan the faces in a crowd at a rate of 300 per second, toward matching them against the police’s database of 21 million photos.
Despite police assurances, just one small sign indicating the trial was active was visible in front of the van that had cameras mounted on it.
“The police are being intentionally opaque about how they’re using this technology and the watchlist that they’re matching people against,” said Hannah Couchman, advocacy and policy officer for the human-rights group Liberty. Couchman added that police were told to intervene if someone was spotted either with their face covered or who declined to take part in the trial.
The Met Police have used facial-recognition cameras to spot potential troublemakers at the Notting Hill Carnival, and police in Wales have also used them at sporting events.
Police in Manchester, UK, recently suspended a secret six-month trial of facial recognition at a shopping center after the Surveillance Camera Commissioner raised concerns.
The problems of false positives—or wrongly identifying innocent people—was highlighted in late November in China, a country that has adopted the technology with little, if any, public debate into the potential dangers.
While that is a light-hearted example of how facial recognition can go wrong, the chilling reality for China’s citizens is that there are 170 million CCTV cameras—many capable of facial recognition—with another 400 million coming in the next three years.
The problem in the UK, as in China, is that the technology is moving ahead without regulatory oversight.