Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe’s leader from 1980 to 2017, has become a sad symbol of despotism and self-enrichment. The regime that he and his coterie put in place transformed Africa’s breadbasket into a tragic wasteland of hunger and malnutrition, disease, and hyperinflation. The “robbery despotism” system operated with total disregard for any rule of law.
Zimbabwe is a landlocked country of nearly 14 million inhabitants. It has very rich potential in agriculture and vast reserves of gold, diamonds, coal, lithium, and many other minerals. The majority of the population is made up of two main ethnicities: the Shona (some 70 percent) to whom Mugabe’s clique belongs, and the Ndebele (some 20 percent).
Much of the international community, however, disapproved of the predominantly white government and put the country under economic sanctions. The so-called “liberation” movements in Rhodesia, under the leadership of Mugabe, a Shona, and Joshua Nkomo, a Ndebele, were actively supported by the Soviet Union. They also received help from Western countries and organizations. The so-called Bush War was brutal, with mounting casualties due to Mugabe and Nkomo’s constant terror attacks, mostly among the African population.
In the second half of the 1970s, the Smith government tried to facilitate a smooth transition to a majority government. A new constitution was passed, elections were held, and on June 1, 1979, a moderate African—United Methodist Church Bishop Abel Muzorewa—became prime minister of Zimbabwe Rhodesia. This start of the transformation, unfortunately, wasn’t recognized internationally. U.S. President Jimmy Carter, his United Nations Ambassador Andrew Young, and the UK government jointly forced Bishop Muzorewa and Ian Smith to negotiate a quick resolution to the Bush War.
Zimbabwe’s new drama began. Little of the guarantees to maintain law and order, which the UK government hypocritically claimed to have secured at the Lancaster House conference, was kept. Despotism started.
Very soon, differences between Mugabe and Nkomo surfaced. The Mugabe side prevailed. This led to the aforementioned massacres of Nkomo’s Ndebele ethnic group. The Mugabe apparatus controlled and plundered the country.
The past few months brought a wave of new hope for change throughout Zimbabwe, as elections were called for the end of July. The European Union was asked to send observers. I spent a few days in Zimbabwe, and nearly everyone I met hoped that a charismatic 40-year-old candidate by the name of Nelson Chamisa would win. As the leading challenger to Mnangagwa, Chamisa ran on a platform of restoring law and order in Zimbabwe, including property rights, to stop the rampant plundering and corruption.
It might have been naive to believe that Zimbabwe’s ruling establishment, which also controls the Electoral Commission, would allow a change. The commission’s long-delayed verdict (as though it needed time to doctor the polls) went to Mnangagwa, by a small margin. It is quite likely that Chamisa received more votes.
The EU observers communicated their disappointment; their statements could have been harsher.
Government forces closed a press conference by the Chamisa campaign and there were at least six casualties among its supporters in the ensuing violence.