The incident elicited all forms of reactions from news outlets. Yet the common narrative now floating around is an attempt to write the attack off as being not a sonic attack, but instead a slip-up with electronic monitoring technology, framing the U.S. government response as a hasty conclusion and overreaction.
What this prevailing narrative fails to note, however, is the long history of such weapons in the Chinese military arsenal. Sonic and ultrasonic weapons (USW) fall under the broader category of directed energy weapons (DEW), which also include a range of weapons on the electromagnetic spectrum. These can be used for many purposes, including destroying electronic equipment, making a targeted person feel ill, or even damaging a targeted person’s internal organs.
“Like gun, missile, and bomb technologies, DEW can be utilized against people, material, and infrastructure,” said Robert J. Bunker, adjunct research professor at the Strategic Studies Institute at U.S. Army War College, in an email.
“As late as the early 1990s, information concerning non-lethal weapons (NLW) and their human bio-effects—at least the advanced DEW forms of them—was discussed primarily within the classified world,” he said.
There are various weapons within this category on the electromagnetic radiation spectrum, which includes visible light, and on the sonic spectrum, which includes audible sound.
“When directed against humans, different bio-effects will result,” Bunker said. “As an example, high-powered microwaves (HPM) targeted at humans can raise their brain temperatures, resulting in seizures and damage, while infrasound can create vibrations in the human body, causing disorientation and incapacitation or potentially even causing organ failure.”
A 2005 secret report from the National Ground Intelligence Center, declassified in 2011, describes experiments the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) was conducting with high-powered microwaves and electromagnetic frequency radiation weapons on animal test subjects.
According to the report, the CCP scientists made it clear in a series of seminars that “the real purpose was to investigate potential human effects of exposure to these specific radiations.”
It states the CCP scientists were using the technologies to cause eye injury, brain injury, and organ injury. Many details on the tests are redacted in the report, but it notes there was a “high mortality” rate among the animal test subjects, and the analysis states that due to gradual effects of such weapons, it was possible that the CCP scientists were developing the technologies “for torturing prisoners.”
On the electromagnetic spectrum, meanwhile, humans can generally see only an extremely narrow range of light known as ROYGBIV (referring to the color spectrum), between infrared and ultraviolet. Beyond ultraviolet are x-rays and then gamma rays. Below infrared are microwaves and then radio waves, followed by “very low frequencies,” then “extremely low frequencies.”
Technologies using these spectrums are not limited to China; and other countries, including the United States, have developed weapons within these categories.
According to Bunker, “a number of these weapons technologies may have originated with Soviet-era programs, but have since proliferated to (or were appropriated by) other national defense programs.”
Among the stated effects, according to the documents, are “forced memory blanking and induced erroneous actions,” various forms of “intense pain” on different parts of the human body, “wildly racing heart without cause,” “induced changes to hearing,” “controlled dreams,” and many others.
Another document shows how such attacks can be carried out by mobile phone networks, vehicles, helicopters, and emitters. It also lists the resonance frequencies of various parts of the human brain, and states the technologies can be used for “sound which bypasses the ears,” “images in the brain bypassing the eyes,” “imposed subconscious thoughts,” and other purposes.
A third document details the bio-electromagnetic field of the human body and the different frequencies of human brain waves.
According to Bunker, weapons such as these are becoming a greater focus in military development around the world. “Twenty-first century warfare is gradually shifting from conventional gun, missile, and bomb technologies which are mechanically derived into exotic and advanced DEW technologies that literally ‘weaponize bands of the electromagnetic spectrum’ and then direct them at opposing forces,” he said.
An Assassin’s Mace attack from the CCP would likely take the form of rapid attacks on GPS satellites to disable key military equipment, the use of EMP from a nuclear blast to destroy electronics in wide areas, rapid strikes on airstrips to disable military planes, and various other forms of attack.
The report states the CCP’s Assassin’s Mace weapons “will permit China’s low-technology forces to prevail over U.S. high-technology forces in a localized conflict, according to these political pronouncements.” It notes the CCP has experimented with “EMP warheads” and the use of nuclear weapons for high-altitude electromagnetic pulse (HEMP) attacks to destroy electronic infrastructure.
According to Bunker, the recent alleged attack on a U.S. government employee in China should be viewed in the context of similar attacks on U.S. diplomatic personnel in Havana, Cuba. He said the sonic technology allegedly used in both incidents “shines the spotlight on potential Chinese security services involvement in these incidents, given their ’medically similar' bio-effects.”