Canada is doing its utmost to promote itself internationally as an innovation leader with its initiatives to attract investment and talent.
“We’re living through a time of great transformational change powered by artificial intelligence, quantum computing, and regenerative medicine. Canada continues to be a leader in these fields and has the opportunity to further partner with innovation ecosystems like Silicon Valley to further our global role,” said Bains in a press release.
But Canada’s biggest innovation challenges may be cultural instead of structural. While a less competitive tax regime and red tape make Canada a relatively worse environment for business than the United States, the high standard of living in resource-rich Canada may be dampening the urgency for innovation.
Contrast the situation with conflict-ridden Israel, ranked as one of the world’s most innovative countries, where an adversity-driven culture fosters an intense environment of innovation and entrepreneurship.
In their 2009 book, “Start-Up Nation: The Story of Israel’s Economic Miracle,” Dan Senor and Saul Singer describe the country as being replete with stories of “tenacity, of insatiable questioning of authority, of determined informality, combined with a unique attitude toward failure, teamwork, mission, risk, and cross-disciplinary creativity.” That doesn’t sound like Canada.
Meanwhile, Canada has abundant natural resources, proximity to the United States, and a stable geopolitical and economic climate. “History has shown that Canada can live comfortably without being innovative leaders as long as they continue to save, invest, learn, and work,” according to “Innovation Policy in Canada: A Holistic Approach” by Daniel Schwanen, vice president of research for the C.D. Howe Institute.
Companies surveyed reported hiring predominantly from the United States (82 percent). And it’s not just technical talent, as the top positions for hiring included sales (67 percent) and marketing (63 percent). The “brain drain” for tech talent is from the south to the north.
Tech actually plays a bigger role in Canada than it does in the United States, with 71,000 tech companies responsible for more than 7 percent of economic output and 5.6 percent of total employment, according to a 2016 report from the Brookfield Institute for Innovation + Entrepreneurship.