Airshow China—the biannual exhibition held in Zhuhai city where China displays its latest tactical weapons—was held this year from Nov. 6 to 11. While Chinese reports said the show faced some financial constraints, it offered a host of new aircraft and unmanned aircraft systems, which are the focus of this first article in a new four-part series.
Since 1996, China has hosted the show, also called the Zhuhai Airshow at the Zhuhai Jinwan Airport in the southern province of Guangdong. In 2014, the air and space technology show expanded to include a large display dedicated to ground force systems.
While the 12th Zhuhai Airshow features weapons similar to what is used by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA), most systems on display are unused. This stems from reforms to PLA logistics implemented in 1998 that subsidized competing companies instead of forcing mergers, resulting in great redundancy in China’s weapon development sector.
There is a good chance China employed Russian “consultants,” as the first indications of this TVC system that emerged in early 2014 showed the influence of recent Russian TVC designs employing TVC “petals” with a pivot system.
Demonstrated in limited use on U.S. and Russian fighters since the mid-1990s, TVC enables gravity-defying post-stall maneuvers. But it remains to be seen whether this engine will come to equip the PLA Air Force’s (PLAAF) newly produced J-10, or Shenyang Aircraft Corp.’s J-16 fourth-plus generation fighter. Although such “supermaneuverability” is useful for close combat, it is expensive and can be negated by current, more maneuverable, all-aspect fifth-generation, imaging-infrared (IIR) guided air-to-air missiles (AAMs). Nevertheless, the modified J-10B’s appearance signifies growing Chinese confidence in their turbofan technology.
Previous informal Chinese reports have noted the PLA would first acquire about 100 J-20s with a better version of the less powerful WS-10A, and then about 300 more WS-15 powered versions. At the Zhuhai show, former J-20 chief designer Yang Wei hinted strongly that the WS-15 on the J-20 will have a TVC system. With an estimated 1,000-kilometer (approx. 621 miles) combat radius, the J-20 can attack U.S. and Japanese fighters beyond the Ryukyu Island Chain. The U.S. Air Force now has less than 180 of its fifth-generation Lockheed-Martin F-22A fighters.
At Zhuhai, an AVIC video showed the J-20 and a concept sixth-generation fighter cooperating with a swarm of unmanned combat aerial vehicles (UCAVs) launched from a Xian Aircraft Corporation Y-20 heavy transport. The United States’ and UK’s sixth-generation fighters are expected to have the same capability.
The AVIC video showed that China’s sixth-generation design will not use vertical stabilizers and will be highly stealthy, as are U.S. and British concepts. The U.S. and Chinese sixth-generation fighters may emerge close to the same time, in the early-to-mid-2030s.
Though expected to fly for the first time in 2019, the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) displayed a model of its Rainbow-7 (CH-7) “cranked delta” flying wing UCAV. With a two-ton weapons payload, the CH-7 is expected to have an endurance of 12 hours and to be highly stealthy.
The competing China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation (CASIC) displayed a model of its Skyhawk flying wing UCAV, with a more blended fuselage area and wing, but did not release any performance data.
On the flight line was a model of another “cranked delta” flying wing UCAV from AVIC. It is possible this design, which is closer to that of the Northrop-Grumman X47B carrier UCAV test aircraft, may come from the Chengdu Aircraft Corporation. At Zhuhai, an AVIC video showed a much larger and twin-engine UCAV closer in configuration to this model operating from a Chinese aircraft carrier. In addition, a division of the China Shipbuilding Industry Corporation (CSIC) revealed its HK-5000G, a smaller straight-wing, turbofan-powered UCAV designed specifically for aircraft carrier operations.
New Chinese cargo airline S7 is an investor in the Tengoen Corp.’s plans to build a large 20-ton payload capable UAV. At Zhuhai, Tengoen—for the first time—displayed a model of its “TC” twin-engine, twin-boom UAV configured to carry a large cargo pod or other pods containing weapons, electronic warfare, or communication payloads, or a large airborne warning and control system (AWACS) radar. Tengoen has the ambition to build its larger “TD” UAV, powered by four or eight turbofan engines, carrying a 20-ton payload pod.
A new company, ZT Guide Control, introduced its FL-2 UAV capable of carrying up to six tons a range of 7,000 kilometers (approx. 4,349 miles). As all Chinese airlines are integrated into “militia” support units for the PLA Air Force, it follows that future UAV cargo airlines would also support PLA domestic and international military operations.
While the more powerful WS-15 did not appear, it is under development and eventually will power a version of the J-20 fifth-generation fighter.
The decision to reveal the J-20’s weapons capabilities is a reminder that China intends to contest control of the air very far from its shores, a real threat to Taiwan which lacks a fifth-generation fighter. China’s rapid development of new UCAVs will place even greater pressure on the defenses of its democratic neighbors such as Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and the Philippines.