The new General Electric Co. began to take shape in the unlikeliest of places.
Stuck last December on a ski vacation with no snow in Park City, Utah, John Flannery said he had “plenty of time to think” about the future of the iconic American manufacturer. After he took over as chief executive officer in August, GE had plunged further into a crisis of cash shortfalls, earnings misses, and outsized liabilities.
It was then and there in that resort town, he said in an interview, that he rededicated himself to the review of GE that culminated in this week’s decision to focus the once-sprawling conglomerate on three key areas: aviation, power and renewable energy. GE will exit the health-care and oil markets and pull back from finance while reducing debt and shrinking corporate operations—the most aggressive plan yet to turn around the 126-year-old company.
“I’ve looked at this every way imaginable, I’ve looked at every combination—pros, cons, balance sheet—everything,” he said. “We’re refashioning the company at every level.”
“If you would have told me 15 years ago that GE would be down to effectively aerospace and power, I would have told you, you were crazy,” he said. “That’s really where we’re going to be.”
In an internal review, GE found that its component businesses, including the pieces now being spun off, should justify a share price of more than $20, said a person familiar with the matter. That played into GE’s decision to break off some pieces, said the person, who asked not to be identified because the discussions were private.
As the head of GE Healthcare, Flannery said he had given some thought to the benefits of a separation. As part of the larger GE, the business sometimes suffered from underinvestment, particularly in fast-moving areas such as artificial intelligence and cell therapy, said the three-decade GE veteran.
“I just thought the company could grow faster outside of GE,” he said.
In addition to the constraints on GE Healthcare, he also saw drawbacks from the conglomerate structure during his time running GE businesses overseas. By shrinking GE’s corporate operations and giving more power to individual business units, Flannery said he wants to speed decision-making and enhance investment opportunities.
“Power still remains mired in a protracted secular contraction for the next year or two,” RBC Capital Markets analyst Deane Dray said in a note, attributing the stock gain mostly to “cathartic relief” that a big change was finally announced. “A lot has to go right for this plan to be successful.”
Flannery unveiled a board overhaul and asset sales in November. Not long after his ski vacation the next month -- and after GE disclosed the insurance liabilities -- he told investors that he was weighing all options, including a possible breakup.
With this week’s announcement, Flannery began clearing away concerns over GE’s debt while laying out a plan to monetize several major assets, said Nicholas Heymann, an analyst at William Blair & Co. The plan will also help GE weather the storm in the gas-power market until it begins to improve in a few years, he said.
“You’re basically reconfiguring the company to bring forward the value-creation opportunities,” he said. “It’s the escape from the Alamo.”