WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump is taking measures against China to crack down on decades-long unfair trade practices that cost the U.S. economy billions of dollars.
Trump signed a Presidential Memorandum on March 22, directing the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) and the Department of Treasury to take actions based on the findings of the 301 investigation, which concluded that China had been unfairly acquiring U.S. intellectual property for decades.
“We’ve spoken to China and we’re in the midst of a very large negotiation. We'll see where it takes us. But in the meantime we’re sending a Section 301 action,” said Trump before signing the memorandum.
Trump orders the USTR to publish a proposed list of products and any intended tariff increases within 15 days of the signing of the memorandum. He also directs the Treasury Secretary to identify types of investment restrictions that will be imposed on Chinese companies investing in the United States.
And China is the world’s top IP infringer, responsible for between 50 percent and 80 percent of all IP theft costs, according to the IP Commission’s estimates.
China uses many tactics to steal information, such as forcing foreign companies to partner with domestic firms and hand over their technology and know-how to gain access to the Chinese market. Companies are also asked to relocate their production, research and development, and data storage to the country.
China has also gained illegal access to the computer networks of U.S. businesses and has often stolen their commercial information, according to the White House.
“The White House is frustrated by the slow pace of the WTO,” Scott Kennedy, deputy director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said in an interview last year.
Therefore, the U.S. government is resorting to unilateral action to move the process along more quickly and get results in time that are beneficial for American industry, he said.
The Trump administration thinks that other countries, mainly Japan and the European Union, will support U.S. efforts on tackling Chinese economic aggression.
“We suspect there will be others who will find this action to be good in leading and showing that we can take action to drive necessary change for the world economy,” a senior White House official said.
“We’re doing things for this country that should have been done for many many years. We’ve had this abuse by many other countries and groups of countries that were put together in order to take advantage of the United States,” Trump said.