MELBOURNE, Australia—On Thursday, Oct. 31, an investigative documentary highlighting the opaque workings of the controversial ‘Confucius Institutes’ (CI), was screened at the Scot’s Church in Melbourne’s CBD.
Zhao, like the teachers working for CIs, were required to avoid topics like the Tiananmen Square massacre, Tibet, and Falun Gong in the classroom, as per CI’s policy. If pressed by a student for an answer, teachers were required to state the party line.
“[CIs] are not consistent with our values of freedom and free inquiry on our university campuses,” Wild said.
“There’s a crisis on university campuses when it comes to foreign interference, and the CI is one of the primary ways in which that is happening … the money comes with strings attached.”
“Australia has actually led the world in the past few years by passing legislation to quite systematically push back against Chinese influence in this country.
“Legislation has passed, but [the Australian government] are not doing very much with that legislation,” Monk said.
“ ... [For] most of the last 35 years, here and around the world, people have wanted China to open up, they’ve wanted to see it develop and prosper, they wanted it to be integrated [into] the Australian system.
“And they assumed that as those things happen, the Communist Party would gradually liberalize and become more friendly and attractive.”
Wild added that the West opened up to China on the premise that China would become more like the West, and embrace policies such as freedom and civil liberties.
“What the economic and foreign policies told us [is] that economic liberalization would bring political liberalization in China.
“What’s happening is that the West is becoming more like China. China is actually changing us,” Wild said.
“So China becomes a world leader in manufacturing AI (Artificial Intelligence) and various technologies so that they don’t have to be dependant on the west. So the west will become more of a third world.”
John Xiao, CEO of Melbourne’s Epoch Times, added that the nature of communism needs to be understood to understand how communist China is influencing the rest of the world.
Phong Nguyen, vice-president of the Victorian chapter of the Vietnamese Community in Australia (VCA), believes that in the end, the people of Hong Kong will win.
“I believe that Beijing will not dare to move [into Hong Kong]. Why? Because as soon as Beijing moves in, the rest of the world … will boycott China.”
Xiao added that though democracy comes from the West, “it is Hong Kong today standing for it.”
“Hong Kong is the perfect example for the entire world to learn from,” Xiao said.
At the crux of the Hong Kong protests is the demand for civil liberties, Monk noted, which came from Britain, not China.
Concerning CCP infiltration in Australia, Monk said the task force that is meant to curb foreign influence had not been given the budget.
“Why is that? It’s because China’s influence is very substantial in this country,” Monk said.