After more than a year dwelling in the cellar of price collapse and humiliation, Bitcoin is leading a resurgence in the cryptocurrency world. From April 1 through April 8 of this year, the world’s first cryptocurrency’s price increased by 20 percent. Other major cryptocurrencies such as Ethereum, Litecoin, and Ripple have also seen their values rise rapidly and quite high, before giving back a little of their gain. More experts predict that “cryptos” are now here to stay.
Then, in 2017, everything changed. The cryptocurrency market exploded, with initial coin offerings (ICOs), exploding and prices of coins such as Bitcoin, Ethereum and Ripple skyrocketing by factors of hundreds and even thousands in some cases. By late 2017, Bitcoin’s value had risen from around $1337 up to $19,400 and the number of cryptocurrencies had exceeded 3,000. Then, the crash of 2018 happened, and investors saw Bitcoin values drop by about 80% over the course of the year.
But in the past few weeks, we’ve seen a massive reversal. Why now? What’s changed?
Similar to the several months preceding the stock market crashes of 1929 and 2000, people were throwing ridiculous amounts of money at crypto assets – and pseudo crypto assets - that they really didn’t understand. But few considered the then limited capabilities of the most innovative financial invention to come into the world in the past millennium.
The hype was that cryptocurrencies were going to change the world’s financial systems and allow individuals to earn, buy and sell without any official authority knowing about it. They would also fundamentally change the way banking and currencies were managed and even threatened their very existence. At least that was the promise.
Another big issue is that mining as a way of keeping integrity of a currency, Bitcoin in particular, has not been the solution for trust that some thought it would be. Mining is too expensive, elitist and subject to manipulation. Volatility also remains a barrier to widespread adoption, as it reflects high uncertainty that the market has with the industry as a whole. And establishing applications beyond the familiar currency uses for the market is still an obstacle as well.
Still, bad actors operating in the darker areas of the world – terrorists, money launders, drug dealers, etc. – still use cryptocurrencies to make transactions, just like they use fiat cash as well as he banking system. Ideally, this should change.