There are many books about presumed plots to take over the world. One of the most famous, “Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion,” is about a Jewish plot to do exactly that. It is known to be a fabrication that wasn’t written by Jews, nevertheless, more than a century after its publication in 1902, it is still widely believed worldwide.
If there is a real-life version of a plan for world domination, Big Tech certainly has made an alarming start. I define Big Tech as social media sites such as Facebook, search engine companies such as Google, and financial services such as banks and credit card companies, to the extent some have become politicized, as discussed below.
Google searches dramatically favor left-leaning sources such as CNN and The Washington Post, while substantially excluding conservative sites such as National Review. A Google search referred to the National Federation of Republican Women as the “National Federation of Republican Enablers” and another listed “Nazism” as one of the ideologies of the California Republican party. While these results were removed, their appearance doesn’t inspire confidence in Google’s neutrality. Leaked internal communications reveal discussions of ways to limit the influence of conservative sites and policies such as the travel ban.
Facebook, through its “news curators,” has suppressed stories of interest to conservatives, such as famed military sniper Chris Kyle (featured in the movie “American Sniper”) and evidence that former IRS executive Lois Lerner used government power to suppress conservatives. They raised the profile of stories on Black Lives Matter before the group was trending on its own. Conservative sites on Facebook have seen dramatic traffic declines.
There are recordings in which Twitter employees admit that they “shadow ban” conservative users, whereby the system creates the impression their messages are delivered to followers when they are not. One case involved four conservative members of Congress (out of 535) who were shadow banned with the excuse that there was a fault in the computer “algorithm.” An algorithm is supposed to be a complex set of logical rules, not a list of conservative congresspeople Twitter employees don’t like.
YouTube has restricted large numbers of videos posted by conservative commentator Dennis Prager. These short videos discuss a range of mainstream conservative issues.
Imagine if airports came under the control of conservatives and they excluded liberals. Offering the excuse that there are other modes of transportation would be preposterous and would never happen. Similarly, given the enormity of the threat to freedom, the idea that people who are unhappy with Big Tech speech suppression could spend decades of time and billions of dollars to create their own environments is equally absurd—and if they did, they probably would be bought out.
Financial services such as banking and credit cards should be open to everyone, regardless of political viewpoint.
Information is the most important commodity in the modern economy, and Big Tech controls much of it. Accordingly, these companies should be regulated as natural monopolies or broken up.
My response is that there are two kinds of content control. Suppressing illegal activities such as incitement to violence and child pornography is necessary; however, if this filtering extends to suppressing legally protected speech that doesn’t reflect one preferred political viewpoint, the liability rule should be reimposed, thereby effectively fining these companies by imposing huge additional costs of doing business.