These companies moved away from the traditional model of buying exotic “big iron” hardware with typically large support contracts from vendors, and moved into the realm of buying cheap, easily replaceable “commodity” parts, reducing the specialization and skill required to maintain and evolve the hardware and capability.
In short, it must provide computing that allows businesses to scale dynamically, at measured cost and value, and provide broad access to a greater pool of resources than would be cost effective to create yourself.
In the early days of cloud computing, there were public, private, community, and hybrid clouds. Public clouds include computing resources available for purchase from companies such as Amazon or Google. Private clouds are created using internal company hardware and resources, and then offered using cloud application programming interfaces and tools. Less prevalent today are community clouds, where private clouds are shared by multiple corporations. Hybrid clouds use a mixture of private and public clouds to jointly deliver service.
On top of clouds, businesses deliver service in three main ways. The Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) model provides low-level tools, such as servers, networking hardware, and storage, for software developers to use as building blocks for scalable and elastic cloud resources. Examples of IaaS include Amazon’s S3 storage service and its EC2 service for elastic computing.
The Platform as a Service (PaaS) model provides more structured services and higher-level tools to build apps, an example being Google’s App Engine.
IoT devices include popular voice-command tools, such as Amazon’s Echo and Alexa, and Google’s Google Home appliance. These voice-controlled devices listen to your wants and needs and then issue commands that kick off cloud processing. The results might be sent to networked devices in your home, including light switches, garage doors, power plugs, and smart doorbells, such as the Ring product.
These IoT devices typically ship with little to no computational power (though that is changing), and instead rely on the cloud for beefy processing, e.g., finding an intruder in a doorbell video; looking up what the weather will be, or what your energy needs are and dimming the lights, etc.