Google’s connections to China have come under scrutiny after U.S. President Donald Trump in late July said his administration would look into allegations that Google was working with the Chinese government on projects that could threaten U.S. national security.
“There may or may not be National Security concerns with regard to Google and their relationship with China. If there is a problem, we will find out about it. I sincerely hope there is not!!!” Trump wrote in a July 26 tweet.
Google left the Chinese market in 2006, and its search engine is blocked by China’s “Great Firewall.” But the U.S. internet giant maintains a number of tech research projects in China, many of them focused on artificial intelligence (AI). The company has offices in Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai, and Shenzhen.
According to the company, the research center was established to encourage research collaborations with the country’s top AI and machine-learning experts.
While there is no information to suggest that the AI center conducted sensitive research that could have national security concerns, through scouring Chinese-language media reports and online sources, The Epoch Times found information about Google’s AI collaborations in China that indicates they have military applications.
In addition, Li, who left the company in September 2018, has extensive ties to Chinese AI research and academic circles. She is a member of a science and tech research forum that is supervised by Chinese authorities. In addition, mentors she has cited as important to her career are participants of the “Thousand Talents” program, an initiative started by Beijing to recruit top scientists and engineers from the West to work in China.
According to the paper, the researchers developed a kind of target selection-assisting technology, which increased the speed of users’ selection of moving targets by about 57 percent and accuracy by about 79 percent. At the same time, the team also used the model to predict the error rate of a moving target selection.
The Chinese Academy of Sciences stated in the initial version of its online press release announcing the research results: “The research … plays an important role in the interface design and technology development of human-computer interaction widely applicable in the military, medical, education, digital entertainment, and other fields.”
But after SCMP reported about the paper and sought comment from Google, the word “military” was deleted from the online press release.
But many Chinese media, such as Sina.com, which reprinted the press release, retained the word in their reporting.
Google confirmed to SCMP its involvement in the research paper, but denied a link to the military.
Earlier that month, it was revealed that the university received significant funding from the Chinese military to work on a project aimed to advance the military’s AI capabilities.
The project is tasked with researching and developing AI for human-machine combat teaming, the report said.
The report added that the work of the university’s military AI lab, called “Military Intelligent High-End Lab” and established in 2018, would be “guided by military needs” and would help build China into an advanced AI country.
Li was born in 1976 and immigrated to the United States with her parents at the age of 16, according to Chinese media reports that have noted her success as an AI expert.
She left Google in September 2018, when she announced she would resume teaching at Stanford, where she is director of the university’s Artificial Intelligence Laboratory and Vision and Learning Lab.
Li is involved with a number of science and tech organizations in China that have close ties to authorities in Beijing.
Li is a member of the Future Forum science committee. According to the forum’s official website, the organization was founded in Beijing in 2015 by leaders in the scientific, educational, internet, and investment fields to facilitate cross-disciplinary research. It is directed by the China Science and Technology Association (CAST) and supported by the Beijing Chaoyang District government.
Other members of the forum are descendants of or associated with former top Communist Party officials, commonly referred to as “princelings,” including Liu Lefei, son of Liu Yunshan, former member of the Politburo Standing Committee, the Party’s top decision-making body; Zhu Yunlai, son of former Premier Zhu Rongji; and Ma Xuezheng, a business executive at Boyu Capital, a private equity firm that was founded by Jiang Zhicheng, grandson of former Party leader Jiang Zemin.
In December 2017, at an “overseas talent exchange” conference held in Guangzhou City that was jointly organized by the European and American Alumni Association and the Chinese Ministry of Education, Li was selected as one of 50 top Chinese who studied abroad.
The European and American Alumni Association was founded by late imperial intellectuals in Beijing in October 1913. It was originally a group for Chinese intellectuals who studied abroad.
After 1949, the association was taken over by the communist regime and became an important tool for the Chinese Communist Party’s United Front Work Department, an agency tasked with spreading the regime’s agenda at home and abroad.
Li also mentioned Li Kai, a professor at Princeton University, during her speech. She explained how she received his help while ​​organizing the international AI imaging competition ImageNet.
She said that Li Kai allowed her to use machines in his lab, and made the competition possible.
In November 2017, Li Kai was also elected a foreign academician, of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. He is a lecture professor at Tsinghua University and also a Thousand Talents Program recruit.