Embattled Chinese telecom giant Huawei has been able to expand its business internationally even as many governments around the world voice their concerns about the security of its equipment.
In 2013, Beijing rolled out “One Belt, One Road,” an aggressive plan to build up trade routes connecting China, Southeast Asia, Africa, Europe, and Latin America. Through the financing of infrastructure projects in more 60 countries, the Chinese regime is seeking to bolster its geopolitical influence around the world.
5G is the next generation of wireless mobile communications technology. Countries are vying for leadership because that technology is seen as critical to future economic growth.
“A Smart City is a complex mesh of systems across sectors such as transportation, energy, water, and healthcare,” according to Huawei’s website. The company claims that its “smart city” solution can build up a network, much like a person’s nervous system, with “real-time situation reporting and analysis that combines cloud computing, IoT, Big Data, and Artificial Intelligence (AI).”
“While the smart cities of the future could be better, more efficient cities, they could also provide authoritarian regimes with previously undreamt of tools of surveillance and control,” the foundation warned. Additionally, when used in democratic countries, Huawei equipment may “act as a conduit for [Beijing’s] intelligence gathering.”
During a speech at the Huawei Global Energy Summit held in Abu Dhabi, Jerry Ji, an executive within Huawei’s Enterprise Business Group unit, said that “Huawei is committed to helping oil and gas companies address challenges and build competitiveness in the global market in today’s digital age.”
Huawei, in an article published on its website in June 2018, announced that its oil and gas data solutions have been implemented in 45 countries, providing the service to 70 percent of the world’s top 20 oil and gas companies. Some of these “smart energy” deals have been officially declared OBOR projects by the Chinese regime.
Several U.S. lawmakers recently voiced security concerns that Huawei’s sales of solar equipment in the United States could threaten the entire American electricity grid.
Meanwhile, David Denoon, a professor of politics and economics at New York University and the director of the school’s Center on U.S.-China Relations, pointed out another exploitative aspect of working with Chinese companies.