A major U.S.-based research society has joined a growing list of companies and organizations that have decided to cut ties with Chinese tech giant Huawei, in compliance with a U.S. government export ban.
“IEEE complies with U.S. government regulations [the export ban], which restrict the ability of the listed Huawei companies and their employees to participate in certain activities that are not generally open to the public. This includes certain aspects of the publication peer review and editorial process,” the statement read.
On May 15, the U.S. Commerce Department added Huawei and its 68 affiliates to its “Entity List,” effectively preventing U.S. organizations and firms from doing business with the Chinese tech giant—unless the companies apply for and are granted a license to sell or transfer any U.S. products and technologies.
Since the U.S. action, several prominent companies around the world have severed ties with Huawei, including Google, Microsoft, Qualcomm, Intel, UK-based chip designer ARM, and German chipmaker Infineon Technologies.
The IEEE statement said that compliance with the U.S. export ban would have “minimal impact” on its members around the world. It added that Huawei and its employees can still enjoy some IEEE benefits as members, including accessing the organization’s digital library and submitting technical papers for publication.
In the email, IEEE advised the email recipients to stop using Huawei staff as reviewers or editors during the peer-review process for IEEE journals, while warning of possibly “severe legal implications.” Several Chinese professors who were recipients of the email confirmed its authenticity to Chinese media. News of the Huawei exclusion was a trending topic across Chinese social media.
For example, in January, Huawei hosted an IEEE working group meeting in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, where the company promoted its “smart city” solutions with the goal of having them become the global industry standard.
In August 2018, Huawei and IEEE held a joint celebration when the global standard for medium-frequency communication in smart grid applications was published.
Meanwhile, China’s state-run mouthpiece Global Times took its usual nationalistic tone in its three reports published in response to the IEEE’s decision.
One report said that Zhang Haixia, a professor in electronics and computer engineering at Peking University, resigned in protest from her positions on the editorial boards of two IEEE journals.