As both the world’s largest source of foreign direct investment (FDI) around the world and the largest beneficiary of FDI, should the United States be selective about which countries can invest in U.S. companies and infrastructure?
More to the point, should the federal government have the power to tell Silicon Valley high-tech startups and other potentially strategic technology firms which foreign investor dollars they may accept and which they may not?
Under normal circumstances, foreign investment is viewed as a very positive thing. In the case of Silicon Valley startups, it supplies the funding to develop new and potentially revolutionary technologies. In general, FDI leads to more economic development, more jobs, a higher tax base, and other benefits. This is particularly helpful for the United States, given that Americans’ savings rate is so low.
China’s aggressive investment in Silicon Valley startups has certainly paid off for them. They’ve gained some key advantages in emerging technologies they wouldn’t have otherwise had. There’s just one big difference between China and other foreign investors: China wants to challenge the United States’ global leadership and hollow out the U.S. economy in the process.
China’s own behavior has brought that reality into clear focus. The pursuit of its “Made in China 2025” initiative that’s designed to put Western technology firms out of business, combined with its state-controlled telecom manufacturing giant Huawei engaging in widespread spying and data theft, has led the Trump administration to conclude that business with China is no longer “just business.”
Consequently, rising tensions between the world’s two largest economies and global adversaries have put every move China makes in a starkly suspicious light.
That’s precisely the conclusion of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS). Founded in 1975, CFIUS is a cross-agency panel that has largely kept a low profile since its founding. In fact, only five deals have been blocked in its entire history.
As a result, getting approval for Chinese investment today is much more difficult than it was in 2017.
If, for example, a startup or existing firm is considered critical or owns potentially strategic technology, a CIFUS review of the foreign investor is required. The review can take months, without any guarantee the foreign investor will be approved. This has thrown ice water on Chinese investment activity.
But is prohibiting China’s investment into Silicon Valley, and other places in the country, the answer?
Considering that Silicon Valley’s most innovative startups cover the spectrum of emerging technologies, from artificial intelligence to robotics and advanced electric batteries and more, it just might be. These technologies will play a key role in both the United States’ and China’s economies in the future.
At the same time, there are costs to reducing Chinese investment in the United States: Silicon Valley startups would have less capital on hand, threatening their ability to develop these technologies.