Chinese telecom giant Huawei is conducting an aggressive public relations campaign to allay global concerns about security loopholes in its equipment by inviting foreign leaders and reporters to visit its headquarters in Shenzhen City.
Most recently, the tech firm invited a reporter from the Globe and Mail—a Canadian newspaper that has reported extensively on the extradition case of Huawei CFO Meng Wanzhou, who was charged by the United States with violating Iran sanctions—to visit its headquarters on Jan. 31.
Huawei arranged a tour for the reporter, which included a brief look at a largely robotic assembly line for the new Huawei P20 smartphone; the “Noah’s Ark” artificial intelligence lab; and other research divisions. Liang Hua, Huawei’s chairman, also gave the reporter a one-hour exclusive interview.
During the interview, the reporter asked Liang about indictments against Huawei that the U.S. Department of Justice unsealed at the end of January, especially with regard to allegations that Huawei encouraged employees to steal trade secrets regarding Tappy, a robot developed by U.S. mobile carrier T-Mobile in 2017.
Liang responded vaguely by saying it’s “not clear,” while seeming to vindicate the company of IP-theft claims by saying it owns 80,000 patents, 10,000 of which are under license in the United States. Liang also told the reporter that Huawei has partnerships with more than 10 Canadian universities, and the resulting intellectual property “belongs to the [Canadian] professors.”
But Global and Mail found that Canadian scholars who worked at universities that cooperated with Huawei, with the support of Canadian public funds, filed 40 U.S. patent applications in 2018—which were all applied under Huawei’s name. Huawei has even secured exclusive rights to some of the intellectual property.
That would mean Liang lied to the reporter.
But the PR efforts haven’t quelled security concerns.
The evaluation report noted that Huawei spent $2 billion to address security issues in the UK.
“If Huawei now fails to restore confidence in the UK, it will likely spell the end of its ambitions across the ‘Five Eyes’ nations,” the evaluation report said.
Five Eyes is an intelligence alliance comprising the Anglophone countries of Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the UK, and the United States. All but Canada has banned Huawei from helping build a new high-speed network. But the Canadian government said it is now evaluating the risk of using Huawei’s products.