China is building a massive DNA database by collecting sensitive information from citizens in various regions of the country, triggering widespread alarm.
The notice further said that the effort is part of the “public security’s basic information work” to “improve the precision and controllability of population management,” and the samples would be collected either by group or door-to-door.
The notice is just one of the most recent compulsory DNA collection initiatives, which critics of Chinese authorities say are a gross violation of privacy and serve to further the regime’s plan to control the genetic makeup of its population.
Steven Mosher, an expert in population control, president of U.S.-based think tank Population Research Institute, and an Epoch Times contributor, said the term “population control” has always had an “eugenics element.”
The regime wants to ensure “quality births,” Mosher told The Epoch Times, adding that one way to achieve that is by tracing “who is related to whom,” so authorities can eliminate those carrying recessive genes that produce birth defects.
“With the advent of genetic testing, [this practice] is about to get a high-tech boost and become much more comprehensive,” he said.
Mosher added that it makes sense for some Chinese authorities to target males, which studies have shown have a higher tendency to commit crimes.
In 2016, authorities in Xinjiang placed orders for DNA analysis equipment, which cost 80 million yuan ($11.23 million).
The Chinese government has subjected millions of Uyghur Muslims in the region to a vast surveillance system, which includes a dense network of cameras enhanced with facial recognition technology and artificial intelligence to monitor residents for any “suspicious behavior.” Authorities have used the pretext of combating “extremism” to justify the surveillance.
The same surveillance methods are also being applied to dissidents and other religious minorities. On March 3, 2018, Li Wei, a Beijing-based activist, was taken from a hotel in Hangzhou to a police station, where authorities took his fingerprints and a saliva sample. A notice from the Zhejiang provincial police department said that such action was mandatory for all non-locals “with prior criminal records” who visit the area.
“Had I refused to undergo the testing, my pension would have been revoked. It’s not an option for me,” a villager from Nanchang City of Jiangxi Province told Bitter Winter.
Villagers also told the magazine that when they asked about the reason for the saliva testing, the police told them that it was to ensure they don’t contract any “infectious diseases.”
A local government official from the Weinan district of Shaanxi told the magazine that its biometrics collection program was established to help create “a national blood database” for criminal investigations.
But critics are concerned about the broad privacy violations of such programs.
Sarah Cook, a senior China analyst at U.S. human rights advocacy group Freedom House, expressed concern that DNA collection programs were the latest example of the Chinese regime “mapping out society for the purpose of controlling it,” she said.
Cook also said the sensitive data could potentially be misused, as the Chinese regime disregards the rule of law.
Mosher said that China’s DNA collection programs are a violation of citizens’ rights, as governments have no right to collect DNA samples other than in actively investigating criminal suspects or convicts.
“Individuals have a natural right to ‘own’ their own DNA,” he said.