Many Democratic presidential candidates are convinced that Russia is the United States’ biggest geopolitical threat—but their outdated reading of foreign affairs only proves that they aren’t qualified to be in the White House.
Now, nearly 30 years after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Democrats are suddenly viewing Russia as America’s most threatening adversary.
“[T]he biggest threat to our national security right now is Russia, not China,” said Sen. Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), insisting that Moscow poses a bigger foreign policy challenge “because of what they’ve done with our election.”
“Russia is our greatest geopolitical threat, because they have been hacking our democracy successfully and they’ve been laughing ... about it for the last couple of years,” agreed entrepreneur Andrew Yang, arguing that “we should focus on that before we start worrying about other threats.”
The main reason for this imbalance is that China’s economy dwarfs Russia’s.
While China aims to eventually surpass the size of the U.S. economy, Russia’s economy keeps falling further and further behind, with South Korea, Australia, and even lowly Spain now nipping at its heels.
Russia also is confronting a monumental depopulation problem. For years, the country has been plagued by low birth rates and high emigration, forcing Moscow to encourage immigration from Central Asia and other parts of the world just to stave off a complete demographic collapse.
Competing with the U.S. military, in terms of both size and technological advancement, is a lot easier for China. Beijing has used its rapid economic growth in recent decades to fund an ambitious military buildup, take advantage of its trading partners, and bind smaller countries to its orbit with infrastructure investments that have strategic strings attached.
While Russia’s territorial ambitions in Eastern Europe—especially its illegal annexation of Crimea—should rightfully concern the United States and its allies, NATO exists specifically to counter that very threat. The global security tensions created by China in East Asia, on the other hand, are truly unprecedented, and there is no established institution to coordinate the free world’s response.