The son of Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden invested in a surveillance system used by the Chinese Communist Party to spy on millions of Muslims in the country, according to a new report.
The information was revealed as the United States condemned China for holding Uyghurs in “concentration camps.”
Hunter Biden’s role in a Ukranian company has already increasingly come under the microscope. In the latest revelation, it was revealed that Democrats asked Ukraine for information about a member of President Donald’s Trump campaign. A Ukranian court previously ruled that the leaking of Paul Manafort’s information from inside Ukraine was an effort to sway the 2016 United States elections.
Joe Biden, the vice president for eight years, allegedly threatened the Ukranian president, saying he needed to fire a prosecutor who was investigating a company that Hunter Biden was involved with.
“In December of 2013, Hunter Biden flies on Air Force 2 to Beijing, China, with his father. His father meets with Chinese officials, he’s very soft on Beijing. The most important thing that happens, happens 10 days after they return,” Schweizer said in a March interview with the Fox News.
“And that’s when Hunter Biden’s small private equity firm called Rosemont Seneca Partners gets a $1 billion private equity deal with the Chinese government, not with a Chinese corporation, with the government. And what people need to realize is Hunter Biden has no background in China, he has no background in private equity, the deal he got in the Shanghai free-trade zone, nobody else had. Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, Blackstone, nobody had this deal.”
The revelation about facial recognition came as the Trump administration officially criticized the communist government on May 3.
“The detention camps, given what we understand to be the magnitude of the detention, at least a million but likely closer to 3 million citizens out of a population of about 10 million, so a very significant portion of the population, what’s happening there, what the goals are of the Chinese government and their own public comments make that a very, I think, appropriate description,” he said.
“China is going to eat our lunch? Come on, man!” Biden said at a campaign event, arguing that the Chinese regime had enough on its hands dealing with domestic problems.
“They can’t figure out how they’re going to deal with the corruption that exists within the system,” Biden continued. “They’re not bad folks, folks. But guess what, they’re not competition for us.”
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), also running for the Democratic nomination, was among those criticizing the comments.