The Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) fourth plenary session concluded on Oct. 31, with state media reports emphasizing that Chinese leader Xi Jinping is the core of the Party’s leadership, indicating that his faction remains dominant.
Among the Party’s main tasks was to advance the nation’s “security,” according to the communique, going on to emphasize the Party’s all-encompassing role in Chinese society.
U.S.-based China commentator Tang Jingyuan analyzed that this was a euphemism for the Party’s desire to maintain the stability of its rule.
The communique repeated Xi’s political ideology, “Xi Jinping’s new era of socialism with Chinese characteristics,” suggesting that his leadership remains stable.
The plenum ended with no major personnel changes, only the promotion of two alternate members of the Central Committee to become regular members. The Central Committee consists of roughly 370 regular and alternate officials.
The previous version was released in 2001, in which it reviewed the main political ideologies of all former Chinese leaders, including Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping, and Jiang Zemin.
In this update, which includes an amended title referencing Xi’s “new era,” the document made no mention of the former Chinese leaders, only referencing Marxism.
First proposed in 2002, the legislation was an anti-subversion measure that many Hongkongers believed would restrict their civil liberties.
It triggered large-scale protests, forcing the Hong Kong government to scrap the bill in 2003.
Since then, Hong Kong pro-Beijing politicians and CCP senior officials have suggested reintroducing Article 23, but the government has not yet taken action.
The bill would have allowed any country, including mainland China, to seek extradition of criminal suspects. Many feared that the bill would allow the Chinese regime, with a history of human rights violations and an opaque legal system, to punish its critics with impunity.
Though the bill has been scrapped, protesters continue to take to the streets, calling for an independent investigation of police use of force during demonstrations and universal suffrage in the city’s elections.