While some may see this as a positive development, the fact that the list is still expanding is quite telling and could be a cause for concern for Democrats.
A cursory review of the various prospects reveals their vastly differing approaches to how they would lead the country. What this shows is that Democrats still have no consistent platform, and as a result, Republicans should continue to hammer home the president’s accomplishments, refrain from engaging in personal and petty verbal attacks, and focus on how to broaden the party’s base and followers.
In essence, given the different sects among the party, Democratic voters might be torn about who to vote for. For example, will moderate Democrats vote for a self-proclaimed socialist if he or she wins the Democratic nomination? This is an important question, the answer to which could have major implications in the 2020 election.
Young Americans are extremely interested in entrepreneurship, and without a healthy economy and a restrained regulatory state, they won’t be able to capitalize on their ambitions. Conservatives shouldn’t assume young people are lazy; instead, they ought to deliver a clear message to young Americans that ingenuity and hard work—not taxation and the regulatory state—are the engines that drive a better quality of life in our country.
Also, young Americans tend to be more financially responsible than older generations, creating an opportunity for the conservative message on both fiscal and temperamental grounds. A conservative movement that speaks to young Americans about a shared belief in prudence, planning, and making responsible choices, both as individuals and as a nation, would resonate.
Government can appear old, clunky, inefficient, and dramatically out-of-step in a world where friendly, artificial intelligence-driven devices in your home instantly tell you the news and ship almost anything to your front door overnight. Conservatives should have something to say to young people about the free markets that deliver so much of what gives them this material quality of life, and why ideas like socialism that failed dramatically in the past (often long before they were born) remain bankrupt today.
Young Americans are also increasingly experiencing the effects of a loneliness epidemic spawned, in part, by the fact that genuine community and human connection have too often been replaced—inadequately—by screen time and social media. It’s true that social conservatism, which is often unfairly portrayed by the media as a basket of retrograde views on gender and sexuality, remains a nonstarter with young people, but the idea that families and communities need strengthening, that they aren’t replaceable by the state, and that they are essential to a fulfilled life is a message that conservatives should be shouting from the rooftops.
As potential Democratic candidates continue to line up and the party tries to find an identity, Republicans have a golden opportunity to take what they learned from the midterm elections and spread their message so that it appeals and resonates with a broader segment of the population.
When President Trump was elected, the American people wanted someone who would take care of them, first and foremost. They wanted a president who didn’t bow to special interest groups, who would boost the economy, create jobs, make the country more secure, and ensure that the United States put itself first. Throughout his first term, Trump has delivered.
American voters are smart. They understand the issues that are important to them. They are also cognizant of the “fake news,” the made-up stories concocted by certain politicians, and the desperate measures taken by some in order to negatively impact the president and those who are closely associated with him.