He said the potential for swarms of armed drones to engage in battle is a “new form of warfare” that could save lives instead of deploying soldiers, though he said the potential for mass casualties could become an emerging humanitarian concern. Walsh said the CCP is encouraging its army to work closely with startups in the private sector and with universities to advance these technologies.
“My understanding is that the U.S. lead in AI is quickly eroding over time,” Bunker said via email.
“While we have better computer scientists and engineers in the field and more cutting edge companies engaged in R&D (such as Google), China has far better access to massive datasets and informational resources gleaned from such platforms as WeChat that has 1 billion users.
“China is literally ‘vacuuming up’ immense amounts of data—this represents the digital nourishment that AI learns and evolves from.”
AI technology will change warfighting strategy, with future use possibly involving the U.S. military using AI-enabled machines, systems, or weapons that would aim to understand the battlespace more quickly, and technology that would help people make “relevant decisions faster or mount more complex multi-domain operations in contested environments.”
The technology will foster a “new generation of semi-autonomous and autonomous combat systems and operations.” Autonomous capabilities can have multiple applications “including for predictive analysis, decision support systems, unmanned platforms, robotics, and weapons (both cyber and physical).”
The commission report stresses that long-term strategic implications to implement AI technologies for military applications may be “even greater than the impact on any specific military task,” citing the speed of decision-making and accuracy of AI compared to humans. They note how some believe AI will bring in a new era of “algorithmic warfare,” rather than traditional warfighting factors such as the range of weapons systems.
“Battlefield advantage will shift to those with superior data, connectivity, compute power, algorithms, and overall system security,” the report said. “Reaching such a future will require the development of new operational concepts, organizational constructs, and decision-makers at all levels trained to understand AI and its associated technologies.”
One role of AI technology is its role in intelligence, with AI algorithms being able to go through troves of data to find patterns, detect threats, and identify correlations. AI tools can “make satellite imagery, communications signals, economic indicators, social media data, and other large sources of information more intelligible.” AI can also assist in America’s defense systems with tools that identify anomalies to inform counterterrorism and counterintelligence efforts.
He said it was no surprise that China, as a growing power, has decided to go that route, but he said he doubted whether the CCP would achieve global dominance in AI by 2030. He also called the propositions of Google working in China to develop AI “concerning.”
“Recent breakthroughs in quantum computing by NASA and Google are a huge step in the direction of creating the computational power needed to develop even more advanced AI,” he said. “So these discoveries are still being made in the United States.”