This year saw the United States ratchet up its confrontation with the Chinese regime.
The Trump administration continued to take Beijing to task on its longstanding abuses in the U.S.–China trade dispute, while authorities ramped up a crackdown on Chinese state-sanctioned economic espionage.
Human rights concerns also made it to the forefront of U.S. policy as the Trump administration took measures to back pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong and punish Chinese companies and officials for their involvement in abuses in the far western region of Xinjiang.
The agreement, due to be signed in early January, includes commitments by the regime to enforce intellectual property (IP) protections, end forced technology transfers, and ensure a stable yuan currency.
The regime also has agreed to buy an addition $200 billion in U.S. goods and services over the next two years, including about $50 billion in farm products, while the United States agreed not to impose new tariffs that had been due to take effect mid-December and reduce existing tariffs introduced in September.
Over the year, U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods, which had ranged from 15–25 percent on about $325 billion of Chinese goods, contributed to a raft of companies moving or considering plans to relocate their U.S.-bound production out of China to Southeast Asian nations, such as Cambodia and Vietnam. The companies reportedly range from global tech giants Apple and Dell to apparel makers and retailers such as Levi Strauss & Co. and Macy’s.
Such fears arise since China’s national security laws compel companies to cooperate with intelligence agencies when asked.
One indictment charged Huawei with bank fraud tied to breaches of U.S. sanctions against Iran, which Meng is personally allegedly implicated, while the other was for alleged theft of trade secrets against U.S. carrier T-Mobile.
In May, during the height of U.S.–China trade tensions, the Trump administration blacklisted Huawei and its 68 affiliates—a number that later was increased to more than 100—from doing business with U.S. firms on national security grounds.
“Both companies have close ties to China’s communist government and military apparatus,” FCC Chairman Ajit Pai said ahead of the vote. “Both companies are subject to Chinese laws broadly obligating them to cooperate with any request from the country’s intelligence services and to keep those requests secret. Both companies have engaged in conduct like intellectual property theft, bribery, and corruption.”
U.S. officials say state-sanctioned IP theft is endorsed under Beijing’s ambitious “Made in China 2025” industrial plan, which aims to transform the country into a high-tech manufacturing powerhouse by the year 2025. The policy targets 10 industries for development, including robotics, aerospace, and biotechnology.
More than 80 percent of all economic espionage charges brought by federal prosecutors since 2012 implicated China, according to the Justice Department, which in November 2018 launched the “China Initiative” to combat the threats posed by Chinese espionage and other forms of Chinese infiltration into U.S. society.
Meanwhile, the FBI has more than 1,000 active investigations open into IP theft, “almost all leading back to China,” FBI Director Christopher Wray told U.S. senators at a congressional hearing in July.
Since January 2018, more than 30 China-related espionage cases, including those involving Chinese intelligence officers, former U.S. intelligence officials, Chinese nationals, and naturalized U.S. citizens from China, have made headlines.
Notably, U.S. officials have stepped up efforts to curb the theft of sensitive technology from research institutions, as evidenced in a string of cases against scientists.
The act, now signed into law, makes the city’s trading privileges with the United States contingent on an annual assessment of whether it is “sufficiently autonomous” from the mainland. It also paves the way for sanctions against Chinese and Hong Kong officials involved in certain human rights violations in the city.
“If America does not speak up for human rights in China because of commercial interests, then we lose all moral authority to speak out for human rights any place in the world,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said prior to the bill’s passage in the House in October.
The crisis in Hong Kong also spilled over into the commercial sector as a growing number of U.S. companies, including Apple, Blizzard, and the National Basketball Association (NBA), came under heavy criticism for allegedly acting to appease the Chinese regime on the issue.
These cases highlighted the chilling effect the communist regime has on free speech across corporate America.
Earlier this month, the House overwhelmingly passed the Uyghur Act, which would require the administration to toughen its response to human rights abuses in Xinjiang. A similar bill passed the Senate in September, and Congress is working on a final, reconciled version to send to President Donald Trump for his signature.
The Trump administration has increased flyovers by U.S. bombers and U.S. Navy patrols in the South China Sea, a hotly disputed waterway where the Chinese regime has built a network of militarized artificial islands and atolls. U.S. officials have repeatedly denounced Beijing’s military buildup and aggressive tactics in the region, which includes deploying coast guard ships and militia fishing boats to intimidate fishing vessels, and block access to waterways.