Perhaps no myth—if myth it be—is more relevant today than the myth of the Great Flood that nearly destroyed humanity at some unknown point in the past.
We colloquially use the term myth, of course, to refer to things that never happened in an historical sense, though in the case of the Flood, there is some doubt because it seems that virtually all cultures and races have some recollection of this event: the ancient Assyrians, Egyptians, Babylonians, Greeks, Chinese, Aboriginals, Andean, and many more. Indeed, the only culture that I am aware of that does not have a Flood myth is, ironically given its current location near tectonic plates, the Japanese.
This seems an astonishing remark and a highly credible one, too: He knew how to read the language before the Flood. Certainly, something of an extraordinary and catastrophic nature occurred which indelibly marked the memory of mankind—so that even 2,700 years ago it was a source of awe and wonder to King Ashurbanipal.
And, incidentally, it was the discovery of this library that led to the recovery of the specific Babylonian Flood myth.
The story with Noah ends quite differently, for there are some highly discordant notes. First, that he gets drunk, and as a result of it one of his sons, Ham, gets cursed; Noah does live a long time, but he, too, dies eventually—there is no reprieve from death. The contrast, then, is that the Babylonian myth does end like a fairy story, whereas the biblical account seems to contain— as most biblical stories do—a kind of gritty realism that recalls something that actually happened. In the context of a worldwide flood killing virtually everybody, why recall the fact that somebody got drunk afterward? Unless it actually happened, it appears inconsequential. So this “mythical” story is the one we should mine for meaning.
How we will die is almost certainly going to be the result of floods and flooding, as the ice caps melt and all that released water raises the sea level. Radical action is needed, they claim.
The thing to understand here is its discontinuity and disruptive nature. Jesus exactly understood this: “In those days which were before the flood they were eating and drinking, they were marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark, and they did not understand.” (Matthew 24:38–39). One day, it’s all bright and sunny, but the next is total devastation.
We in the West have gotten used to a philosophy from the Enlightenment, which preaches endless human progress and possibilities that nothing can or will stop. Today this is manifested in the Silicon Valley mindset whereby artificial intelligence (AI) is going to solve all our problems, and whatever problems we have here anyway, no need to fret as Elon Musk is going to help us all settle on Mars—as if, of course, we wouldn’t scramble that planet, too!
But suddenly, we understand, the idea of the Great Flood and the fear of an upcoming flood upsets the status quo and changes all that. The myth—the facts of the myth—warn us against such complacency, and warn us to walk with humility, not arrogance or hubris, before God or, if we aren’t monotheistic, the gods and invisible forces that are above us.
The latter is hopelessly complacent and smug, the former desperate and earnest. How are they two sides of the same coin? They are two sides of the same coin because at root they both embrace the same philosophy: The “complacents” think nothing and no one can interrupt their “progress,” whereas the rebels believe they have the power to prevent the second flood through their own political machinations first and foremost, and possibly with some science second (new greener technologies). In short, mankind is entirely able to control the situation; both are saying this, one passively, one actively.
The final thought, then, about the Great Flood that engulfed the world all that time ago is to ask, why? Humans didn’t will it or want it, and only one—with his family—anticipated it. Why did God destroy the world? This, too, is a highly unpalatable thought.
Why, as I write this, Turkey has just invaded Syria and attacked the Kurds; doubtless for its own “good” reasons, but the reality seems to be that the world is constantly throwing up aggressions of one sort or another, if not here, then there and elsewhere, too.
In some sense, the Flood myth captures for us now that sense that—as with that other great topic, Armageddon—we can be distracted from our own personal evil and divert all our attention onto the big cause that is the “problem,” which at the same time avoids our own responsibility for the state of the world.
For the myth of the Great Flood reminds us that we are not in control, and that there is a higher power, and we are answerable to it. Indeed, it seems as if freedom of the will is of a paramount importance in the spiritual cosmos beyond where we can legitimately probe. Noah warned the earth of what was coming, but they didn’t believe him—eating, drinking, and marrying were clearly much more enjoyable than considering the destiny of mankind. They freely chose to ignore the warnings, and then Noah  entered the ark.