Despite the comprehensive and seemingly endless meltdown of cryptocurrency assets, blockchain technology continues to make significant progress in its integration into major sectors of the global economy.
But on the individual organizational level, blockchain is already being adopted by those who see the value in it, in spite of the hurdles.
“This is not an issue of when blockchain will start working in health care. It is starting to work. ... Once you have the right framework in place, then the use cases will flood in and that’s what we are experiencing.”
Hyperledger Fabric differs from first-generation blockchain in that it’s a community ledger made up of members or peer groups, called peer nodes. Peers are, by definition, trustworthy. That eliminates the need for time-consuming consensus, upon which blockchain relies so heavily and which severely inhibits the speed of authentication.
What’s more, peer nodes are based on a highly elastic and extensible modular architecture. That changeable feature allows pluggable implementations for participants to meet specific needs such as confidentiality, resiliency, flexibility and scalability that any given organization may require, but won’t find, in first-generation blockchain.
It’s important to note that making the transition from existing systems to blockchain-based ones is, in many cases, more likely to be gradual than immediate. But as more transitions occur, momentum will grow in favor of adoption and those failing to adopt will face an adapt-or-perish decision.
From that perspective, the faster the blockchain revolution happens, the better off we’ll be.
Of course, not every firm or organization in the process adopting blockchain is anxious to discuss it in depth, for reasons having to do with security, potential business disruptions and other factors.
For skeptics, it seems that nothing short of a total, worldwide adoption of the distributed ledger technology will validate it. But such myopia reminds one of the same criticisms leveled against the internet’s revolutionary—and evolutionary—development.
But neither ignorance nor pessimism can change the fact that organizations and governments around the world are in various stages of testing and deploying blockchain. The reason is simple: it’s unmatched in its ability to secure data and IP, reduce friction from international transactions, coordinate highly complex interacting systems, and much more.