Another Hong Kong resident was said to have committed suicide in the past week.
On Oct. 10 at around 6 p.m., a man fell from a high-rise building in Hong Kong’s Sha Tin area. As he was falling, one of his feet detached from his body. When the ambulance arrived, medical staff confirmed that he had already died.
The police later announced that the man, surnamed Lin, 31, did not leave a suicide note. The police also said his medical history shows he had suffered from mood disorders, which might provide an explanation for his motive to commit suicide.
However, netizens have raised five alarming points based on photos taken on site.
First, there were no obvious blood stains on the ground.
Second, a lot of bleeding would be expected if his foot broke off from his leg during the fall, but there was no blood flowing from the man’s body.
Third, his body was stiff, and based on the movements of his hands and arms during the fall, netizens suspected that his arms were bound or handcuffed when he was still alive.
Fourth, the man hit the ground head first, but there was no brain matter oozing from his head.
First of all, having more than 100 suicide cases in just a few months is unprecedented in Hong Kong’s history. These so-called suicide cases were either through jumping off high-rise buildings or by drowning. A fireboat operator wrote on a social media post that he had worked on fireboats for more than a decade, and the number of corpses he recovered in the past several months is as high as the total number from the past ten years.
In addition, there are many questionable details in these suicide cases as reported by various media outlets. For example, several victims who fell from tall buildings did not bleed but displayed past injuries on their corpses. One victim who had supposedly “drowned” was found with his hands bound together. Another victim whose body was found floating in the bay across Tsuen Wan had his mouth covered with tape, and it appeared that he did not die from drowning as his body was not bloated. In another horrific case, a naked woman fell from a tall building and it seemed her body had already been severed at the waist.
Many believe that these people were murdered before they were thrown into a river or thrown off a building. Most notably, the number of unusual suicide cases increased drastically after police raided the Prince Edward station on Aug. 31.
Riot police stormed MTR trains at Prince Edward station and made many arrests that night. Witnesses say the police assaulted passengers indiscriminately, chasing and beating them with batons on the platform and using pepper spray inside train carriages. Several people were hit on the head and bled heavily.
Many protesters were reported missing after the incident. Ms. Leung, the director of Kwun Tong community, shared on social media that an employee working at a mortuary service revealed that police caused at least six deaths at the train station. The mortuary company handled these six corpses, and the employees found that they had all died from broken necks. Apparently, the police had forcibly twisted their necks 90 degrees from behind to cause the deaths.
The authors of the article learned from intelligence agencies that the mainland Chinese regime has implanted their paramilitary forces within Hong Kong police departments.
According to the article, the regime uses facial recognition and AI technology to locate student protesters. It states that female student protesters have been gang raped by the Hong Kong police, who are actually mainland Chinese police and security personnel dispatched and approved by the Hong Kong government.
It further points out that of the recent death cases declared as suicides, “some of the females are simply victims of rape in order to scare the masses of students.” Those victims who supposedly jumped off buildings were “coerced or thrown off.”
The article also elucidates that these tactics are widely used in China when the regime aims at tracking and persecuting democracy activists, Falun Dafa adherents, house Christians, Tibetans, Uyghurs, and others.
“The captured are sent to police stations, detention centers, reeducation labor camps, and concentration camps. Suicides are almost always the declaration of the Chinese Socialist Regime. They are subject to torture, rape, and organ trafficking which leads to their murder,” the article said.