WASHINGTON—Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.) joined with Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) and Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-Wis.) in urging Secretary of Defense Mark Esper to make public the names of companies owned or controlled by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA).
“If Beijing cannot develop technology on its own, it attempts to steal it from the United States using cyber espionage, intelligence assets operating in the United States, and state-directed companies that acquire American firms to transfer proprietary information,” the letter stated.
The four encouraged Esper to “re-examine all the statutory authorities” available to him “to confront the CCP’s strategy of Military-Civilian Fusion, including powers that have lain dormant for years.”
Chief among those authorities is a 20-year-old provision in the 1999 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that directs the secretary of defense to “make a determination of those persons operating directly or indirectly in the United States or any of its territories and possessions that are Communist Chinese military companies.”
The provision was amended two years later to tell the defense secretary to share the information about those companies with Congress, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency and multiple Cabinet secretaries.
It was unclear on Sept. 13 when the DOD compilation was most recently provided to Congress.
“We weren’t able to find anything recently, but I can’t say that with complete certainty it wasn’t,” Cotton spokesman Caroline Tabler said.
The letter regarding making the list of communist Chinese military firms public comes while evidence of China’s extensive use of cyber-espionage to steal U.S. technology continues to mount.
Unlike most cyberattacks, which tend to emanate from criminal elements operating in other nations, the report said that the majority of the Chinese attacks were performed by state-sponsored intelligence actors to obtain information on technologies identified as strategic priorities by the Chinese regime, including telecommunications, health care, semiconductor manufacturing, and machine learning.
“We believe it is critical that the United States take appropriate measures to ensure China does not abuse Hong Kong’s special status under U.S. law to steal or otherwise acquire critical or sensitive U.S. equipment and technologies in support of its strategic objectives or to infringe on the rights of people in Mainland China, Hong Kong, and elsewhere,” the senators said.
The problems created for U.S. national security interests by communist Chinese military firms are multiplied when U.S.-based technology firms such as Google work with them, directly or indirectly.