A Biden administration likely would mean an unwise reversal of the Trump administration’s efforts to restore deterrence against America’s main foes: China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea.
Aggressive foes such as Vladimir Putin, Xi Jinping, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and Kim Jong-un pocket every concession they receive.
“Mr. Prime Minister, in case you haven’t noticed, there’s a real difference between being President and Vice President. The very good news is the President and I agree 100 percent on the need to continue to establish a closer and closer relationship,” Biden said during his 2011 meeting with Putin. “That’s why the very first foreign policy annunciation our administration made was when I made the speech in Munich that it was time to push the reset button and change the atmosphere.
“I would view the previous eight years—did not take advantage of the opportunities that exist for both our countries. It does not really matter how—it’s in our self-interest and I hope in the self-interest of Russia to have our relationship grow.”
This didn’t keep Russia from invading Ukraine three years later.
The same rationale has been applied to China and Iran. Aimless diplomacy and trade measures seldom subdue an aggressor, the most prominent example being the appeasement of Adolf Hitler in 1938, which did nothing to prevent him from starting World War II a year later in 1939.
Biden remains intent on entering into or remaining in nuclear pacts that the other side has little interest in fully honoring.
Michele Flournoy, former undersecretary of defense for policy under President Obama, who has been mentioned as a possible defense secretary under Biden, shares the former vice president’s support for an unconditional extension of START III. Flournoy prioritizes cost over capability when it comes to nuclear modernization.
Biden plans to continue the Trump administration’s investment in artificial intelligence (AI) and high technology solutions. The United States is working to catch up with China and Russia in the area of AI.
As it stands, Biden would be unlikely to continue President Trump’s policy of a drastic drawdown from Afghanistan.
If Biden wants to succeed in deterring China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea, his approach if elected should be to avoid micromanaging the nation’s warfighting capabilities from the White House and let the generals and the admirals set the direction. Obama-era micromanagement resulted in the disastrous response to ISIS, which made it impossible for the Obama administration to finish off the ISIS caliphate.
Similarly, a refusal to take a harder line against Pakistan, Iran, China, and other supporters of the Taliban has made victory in Afghanistan elusive.
Biden should reconsider by putting military and diplomatic pressure against them.