The very nature of Chinese communism is evil. Much of the harm that has been done around the world for the past 70 or more years is directly attributable to the Chinese Communist Party.
Chinese influence around the world began during the Korean War. If the North Koreans with Chinese army support had been successful, South Korea would have become another communist country in Asia. In fact, during the Vietnam War, China supported North Vietnam in its takeover of South Vietnam and Laos.
The population of the People’s Republic of China numbers approximately 1.4 billion, and the number increases every day. It’s no surprise that the communist regime cares little about its own people, as witnessed by the savagery demonstrated during the Cultural Revolution launched in 1966 by Mao Zedong, finally ending with his death 10 years later.
Mao’s ideology was based on Marxism-Leninism, but with far more brutality against his own people. In one horrendous incident, Mao ordered the slaughter of approximately 340 peasants whom he denounced as “capitalists” merely because they owned their small land holdings. Mao’s perpetrators bragged about these brutal killings as “red terror” during which entire families, including children, were butchered. It is estimated that as many as 65 million Chinese people were slaughtered by Mao.
Mao’s questions to his followers included “who is our enemy”? and “who is our friend”? His enemy was always the capitalist United States. It’s telling that any discussion of the Cultural Revolution is discouraged today, but that doesn’t mean that any subsequent regime under various leaders, including Jiang Zemin and Deng Xiaoping, wasn’t just as brutal.
During the Zemin secretary generalship, the spiritual group Falun Gong was targeted for “eradication” by murder or lengthy prison terms. The practitioners of Falun Gong believed in meditation and exercises and following teachings that promoted morality, truthfulness, compassion, forbearance, and virtue, characteristics that were not acceptable to the communist regime.
In China there is no free expression, dissent is non-existent, and much like what happened to Falun Gong, Christianity is under subtle siege with the removal of crosses from churches across China. Over 1 million ethnic Muslim Uyghurs have been interned in concentration camps euphemistically called “re-education” institutions, where these people are indoctrinated to accept and adopt the communist “get your mind right” philosophy.
Parallel action also takes place beyond China’s borders once any country becomes indebted to the regime in any way. The Chinese Communist Party has been insidiously building support for communism in Asia and is slowly building, bribing, or buying influence all over the world. For example, when a country enters into any joint venture with a Chinese corporation, that country must be willing to share its applicable technological and/or intellectual property with China.
A perfect example of the coercive behavior of the Chinese communist regime is the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI, also called One Belt, One Road) aimed at building infrastructure projects such as railways, highways, ports, and pipelines throughout Asia and parts of Eastern Europe. Its true purpose is to co-opt control of trade routes and communication networks for China’s access.
Unfortunately, everyone of these BRI projects has strings attached, or what could be called “economic clientele-ism,” which is a ruthless trap giving China some level of economic control over many of the countries where BRI projects have been completed. For example, Sri Lanka invested in a sea port in which the Chinese navy now houses one of its submarines. The practice of co-option is prevalent in all these activities as international companies operating in China have been known to have their economic activities curtailed if that company is critical of any Chinese government policy.
In a recent article, Dr. V. A. Shiva Ayyadurai explained that the United States is becoming an “indentured servant” to China. Chinese industrialists and foundations controlled by the Chinese communist regime are buying access to U.S. universities, such as Harvard, and banks, such as Wells Fargo. These activities are ongoing, in an attempt to influence those who have connections to the United Nations, the World Health Organization (WHO), and the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and strongly suggest that China is waging economic, scientific, and psychological warfare on the West.
The implication is clear. Security of military, industrial, and communications technology will be at severe risk if Huawei technology becomes part of the 5G system. As a result, Western democracies must not utilize Huawei technology if these countries wish to retain full control of their communications security.
These predatory business practices combined with its totalitarian political philosophy proves conclusively that China cannot be trusted in any activity, political, economic, or societal. China’s trade policies, total absence of any regard for human rights and free speech, combined with its brutal treatment of its own people, should make every Western leader extremely cautious when dealing with China. Yet, when he is questioned about Canada’s relationship with China, Trudeau refuses to answer any direct question and will not criticize the communist regime or its practices, even while Canadian products such as soybeans, beef, and canola are blocked from Chinese trade, and two Canadians, Michael Spavor and Michael Kovrig, languish in Chinese communist prisons for so-called spying.
Recently, another blow to Alberta was struck with two of the biggest meat packing plants in Canada closed due to the pandemic that has taken several workers’ lives. The agriculture and ranching industries across the Prairies will be severely hurt, but Trudeau, with his unthinking selfish tax greed, has not removed the carbon tax from our food producers. It should surprise no one that during the past few months, Trudeau has introduced legislation that strongly suggests he is moving Canada to a socialist if not totalitarian regime. Canadian voters must be on their guard.
The Chinese communist regime has no regard for international treaties or the recognition of international waters, as proven by their ongoing practice of building artificial islands and installing landing strips on them. The pandemic has allowed China to bully Taiwan and Hong Kong even more.
In view of the COVID-19 pandemic that is ravaging the entire world at this time, it’s instructive to remember that China did not warn the world of the coronavirus for almost two months. It’s shameful that Chinese Dr. Li Wenliang warned the Chinese authorities of the virus in early December 2019. He was castigated for “upsetting the social order” and made to sign a confession as such. Dr. Li died on Feb. 7, 2020, after contracting the virus.
At this time the British government is considering bringing suit against the Chinese government for trillions of pounds, as is the Henry Jackson Society for $6.5 trillion in economic losses. The Chinese communist regime cannot be trusted under any circumstance, and this editorial is a warning for Prime Minister Trudeau. Will he listen or has he been “co-opted” by the Chinese communists? We must fear the latter.