A Chinese database containing the personal information of millions of people around the globe was recently leaked to Western media, offering a glimpse into the regime’s vast data harvesting campaign targeting foreigners.
A private Chinese company, Shenzhen Zhenhua Data Technology, had amassed a database with files on 2.4 million people, compiled mostly from open-source material such as social media posts and online data. A reconstruction of 10 percent of the database by an Australian cybersecurity firm named Internet 2.0 revealed that it includes records on about 52,000 Americans, 35,000 Australians, 9,700 Britons, and 5,000 Canadians.
People in the database range from ordinary business professionals to prominent figures such as U.S. naval officers, China watchers in Washington, members of the British royal family, and company leaders. The data cache also provides details on countries’ infrastructure, movements of military assets, and public opinion analysis.
The database was leaked by a source in China to American academic Christopher Balding, who was previously based in Vietnam but has since returned to the United States because of security concerns. He then gave it to Internet 2.0 for reconstruction and analysis.
Details were published by a consortium of media outlets last week, including The Washington Post and The Daily Telegraph in the UK.
Experts told The Epoch Times that such a denial was unsurprising.
The ultimate goal of this strategy, Fleming said, is to “destroy democracy for the takeover of Chinese communism globally.”
Nicholas Eftimiades, a former U.S. senior intelligence official and author of the book “Chinese Intelligence Operations,” said that the database would help Chinese intelligence to target individuals primed for recruitment or blackmail—those with “vulnerabilities” that can be exploited, such as “a need for money, [or] political feelings against the administration.” For instance, the Chinese regime could look for social media posts that suggest dissatisfaction with the government or financial difficulties.
For influence operations, the process is similar: Chinese agencies would look for people who post views supportive of Beijing’s policies, Eftimiades said. They would then work to support that person, their organization, and amplify their views.
Shoebridge pointed out that the database includes profiles on children of powerful people such as politicians and business executives, allowing the regime to target these individuals through vulnerabilities found in their offspring.
“That’s a pretty disturbing potential use of data like that,” he said.
“The scope is beyond most people’s comprehension,” Fleming said.
Shoebridge likened the database to a single plastic ball in a large ball pit. This dataset would be combined with data compiled by other Chinese entities to be used in a range of operations to further the regime’s interests.
“It’s the interaction of companies with data like this with other companies and government data that gives the power,” he said.
This strategy is reflected in the regime’s “civil-military fusion” doctrine, which seeks to leverage innovations by private enterprises to power military development, Shoebridge said.
It cites the example of Global Tone Communication Technology Co., a subsidiary of a Chinese state-owned enterprise that’s supervised by the regime’s central propaganda department. The tech firm focuses on “big data” collection and artificial intelligence (AI) technologies such as facial recognition. It collects vast swathes of data around the world in more than 65 languages and processes it for use by Beijing for intelligence, security, and propaganda purposes.
Eftimiades believes there are likely dozens—if not hundreds—of Chinese companies involved in such big data collection to aid the regime. This doesn’t include those run by China’s security agencies, which are vacuuming up data on all 1.4 billion citizens via the country’s sweeping high-tech surveillance apparatus.