British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced on March 27 that he tested positive for the CCP virus.
Johnson is the leader of the ruling Conservative Party. Since taking office as prime minister on July 24, 2019, he has encountered pressure and criticism on issues such as Brexit, Huawei, and its role in Britain’s 5G networks, British–U.S. relations, and China policy.
Johnson, 55, is one of the highest-profile patients in the world to be infected with the CCP (Chinese Communist Party) virus, commonly known as the novel coronavirus.
So what are Johnson’s ties with the CCP?
In ancient China, every time disasters befell the empire, leaders and officials reflected on themselves. In history, there were 79 emperors that issued a “Condemnation on Oneself” to examine their own faults, hoping to seek forgiveness and protection from heaven. Applying traditional principles of governing the country, we can also draw lessons for today’s society.
On the same day, Zhang Jiangang, vice president of Huawei, welcomed the UK’s decision of allowing Huawei to participate in its 5G network. “Huawei is relieved because of this,” Zhang told Chinese state-run media Xinhua.
Huawei insiders reveal that the company has close ties with the CCP, and has been accused of stealing from others to develop its own technology. The Trump administration has sought to convince allies to ban Huawei from 5G networks over security concerns. However, Johnson ignored the U.S. warning and concerns voiced by British lawmakers.
On Feb. 18, Brexit Party leader Nigel Farage criticized the decision to let Huawei into 5G networks and called it “the worst decision any British government has made in years.”
After Johnson took office, Huawei’s business activities in London remained high-profile and active. In September 2019, Chinese mainland media quoted U.S. news outlet Business Insider, revealing that Huawei had already set up a new artificial intelligence (AI) research laboratory in London. It is reported that the new laboratory is part of Huawei’s OpenLab global research and collaboration center network. A source familiar with Huawei’s plan pointed out that the company planned to staff the office with 200 AI research engineers.
On Dec. 16, 2019, Huawei’s 5G Innovation and Experience Center in London was unveiled. The center is located in one of the largest shared office spaces in the Cocoon Global building, a Chinese-funded co-working space.
On Feb. 24, Huawei held a virtual press conference on new products and solutions, themed “TOGETHER, Connecting Possibilities.”
Johnson also mentioned in the interview that the UK is the first Western country to join the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), and he would do his best to keep the UK as the “most open economy in Europe.”
According to the rules, eligible companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange would be able to issue global depository receipts (GDRs) to the UK and global investors and apply for them to be listed on the London Stock Exchange’s Main Market. Eligible companies listed on the London Stock Exchange would be able to issue Chinese depository receipts (CDRs) to Chinese investors and apply for them to be listed on the Main Board of the Shanghai Stock Exchange.
In fact, the CCP is accustomed to using economic interests as a bargaining chip—to coerce Western governments and commercial enterprises to remain silent about the CCP’s violation of human rights.
“Sadly, under Boris Johnson’s regime, not much appears to have changed. Just look at one of our key strategic industries, British Steel. It appears to have been sold to another Chinese firm, Jingye, despite competitive bids from other parts of the world. I believe that the same establishment that sold out our nation to the European Union is now selling us out to China,” Farage wrote.
He also pointed out that Johnson has been influenced by many pro-China figures, including members of his own family.
“Only a couple of weeks ago his father, Stanley, had a 90-minute meeting with the Chinese ambassador to London, Liu Xiaoming. Afterwards, Johnson Snr emailed UK officials outlining Xiaoming’s worries that his son Boris had failed to send a personal message of support after the coronavirus outbreak. This fascinating insight only became public because Johnson Snr accidentally copied the BBC into his message,” Farage wrote.