WASHINGTON—Although China is undeniably and universally acknowledged by U.S. policymakers as America’s biggest strategic threat, the United States cannot say it wants to “contain” that threat.
That was one of the messages from Patrick Cronin, who holds the Asia-Pacific Security chair at the Hudson Institute in Washington, at the Westminster Institute on Jan. 18.
Cronin explained the rationale for this seeming paradox.
Suggesting that America wants to “contain” China is a term used by America’s enemies, such as Russia.
Therefore, the argument goes, the United States doesn’t want to play into the language of our adversaries.
The military threat focuses on the South China Sea, Cronin explained, “because that’s where China has the most running room.”
The difference with the East China Sea is that there, “Japan stands in their way.”
Cronin suggested a nuanced approach by the Chinese. They want “to change the status quo without triggering a major response.”
That’s no different from the other revisionist states on the National Defense Strategy list, which, in addition, to China, are Iran, North Korea, and Russia.
But all want several of the same outcomes. Each wishes to eclipse U.S. power.
China’s total competition strategy includes several dimensions, as Cronin and other analysts in Washington’s policy world identify, although not all agree which areas are the most important to China in the long run.
Cronin says that competition encompasses, in order of importance, the economic, legal, psychological, military, and information spheres.
Listing the military as fourth in importance is intentional.  “It’s not how they want to win,” Cronin said.
Total competition doesn’t equate to total warfare, Cronin said.
But China’s military posture still remains a major dimension of its outward-facing posture.
That’s because the United States isn’t China’s only roadblock to its ambitions.
First, in its efforts to “push us out of Southeast Asia altogether,” China uses anti-access/area denial (A2/AD) technology.
Not only is Guam in the DF-26’s sights, with a range of 3,000–4,000 kilometers (1,875–2,500 miles), the DF-26 is also “capable of ranging most U.S. military bases in the eastern Pacific Ocean.”
Combined with the armed fishing boats that make up China’s maritime militia, and the relative might of the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN), China’s coast guard makes up the middle layer of what is known as “cabbage strategy.”  Like the overlapping leaves of the cabbage plant, so common in Chinese households, the naval tactic encloses islands within successive layers of concentric circles, eventually compromising and essentially capturing them completely.
The Reed Bank incident in the Philippines in June 2019 is an example of the Chinese use of the maneuver.
A Chinese boat rammed a Philippine fishing vessel anchored at Reed Bank in the South China Sea. Left in the water by the Chinese, the 22 crew members were ultimately rescued by a Vietnamese vessel.
RAND, a nonprofit global policy think tank, describes the main function of the SSF’s space component as “the launch and operation of satellites to provide the PLA with command and control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities.
“They are tools of strategic deterrence, critical to enabling the PLA to fight informatized local wars and counter U.S. military intervention in the region and essential for supporting operations aimed at protecting China’s emerging interests in more-distant parts of the world,” RAND states.