New Zealand universities and businesses are providing valuable knowledge and technology to Beijing’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) via collaborations with their Chinese counterparts. These collaborations could inadvertently be “accelerating” the modernisation of the Chinese Communist Party’s military arm, according to a new report.
Although many academic collaborations were “benign” in nature, the paper warns that the New Zealand government and universities needed to be more proactive in dealing with Beijing’s willingness to exploit “civilian links with Western countries to access cutting-edge scientific expertise with military-end-use.”
Despite the relative size of the country’s university sector (with eight institutions), the report found that on a “per institution basis” New Zealand published more joint research with PLA-affiliated universities than the United States over the last 25 years.
The findings revealed that New Zealand institutions published “70 joint papers” at a ratio of around “eight PLA-connected papers per New Zealand university.”
Meanwhile, the United States, with over 1,200 accredited universities, published 1,779 papers at a ratio of about one paper per U.S. university.
The goal is part of Chinese leader Xi Jinping’s push to fast-track the PLA’s modernisation from a land-based army to a multi-faceted military force.
In 2017, university scientists flew to Hefei in China for the official signing of an agreement with iFlytek to fund a position at Massey. The position was filled by Wang Ruili.
NUDT has a track record of research into “supercomputers, autonomous vehicles, hypersonic weapons,” and the Beidou satellite system—China’s main competitor to the U.S.-owned GPS satellite.
Wang and his students have also been involved in the development of “unmanned systems” which was lauded by Chinese General Yang Xuejun as the “core of weapon equipment.” The general, who is also president of the Academy of Military Sciences, encouraged NUDT researchers to “seize the historical opportunity of intelligent unmanned combat.”
On Aug. 3, a Massey University spokesperson confirmed with The Epoch Times that it no longer has a relationship with iFlytek.
The Wilson Center report also found PLA connections with the University of Auckland, Victoria University in Wellington, Auckland University of Technology, University of Canterbury, and Otago University.
In the business realm, Chinese universities and enterprises have also been collaborating with New Zealand-based companies.
In 2014, major Chinese state-owned automotive and machine manufacturer, Beijing Automobile Industry Company (BAIC) acquired a 50 percent interest in Pacific Aerospace, based in Hamilton, New Zealand.
Further, the country risked “major reputational damage” if the government did not address issues related to technology transfer to Beijing, especially given the tight-knit nature of the scientific community. New Zealand’s scientists and technology firms could potentially be “shut out of international collaborations and business opportunities.”