Okay, we live in an era where propaganda dominates our media to an almost unprecedented degree, but this is beyond the proverbial pale and headed for Alpha Centauri.
The consulting firm McKinsey? Whose science are we talking about here? That of the Wuhan Institute of Virology—the laboratory, consensus now accepts, from whence the pandemic that destroyed the health and economies of nearly the entire globe emanated? It would seem so.
To put it bluntly, McKinsey & Co., the giant U.S. consulting firm with 127 offices worldwide and some 27,000 employees, has been in bed with communist China for decades.
“This year’s McKinsey & Company retreat in China was one to remember.
“Hundreds of the company’s consultants frolicked in the desert, riding camels over sand dunes and mingling in tents linked by red carpets. Meetings took place in a cavernous banquet hall that resembled a sultan’s ornate court, with a sign overhead to capture the mood.
“‘I can’t keep calm, I work at McKinsey & Company,’ it said.
McKinsey advises a good swath of China’s state-owned companies, including those building the artificial islands in the South China Sea that the United States and much of the West, not to mention the World Bank, holds to be illegal. These islands are an integral part of the escalating Chinese military threat.
McKinsey has also been deeply involved with China’s Belt and Road Initiative, a program that many see as the linchpin of communist imperialist expansionism. The company has reassured Third World countries about China’s “benign” intentions with this project in places as far-flung as Malaysia only to find themselves embroiled in corruption scandals, according to the Times.
“If we ignore our ritual partisan debates and try to be as objective as possible, I think we can agree that the pandemic has exposed two weaknesses in contemporary American society: the loss of critical manufacturing capabilities and the decline of the one-earner family.
“The loss of manufacturing capacity means that the U.S. is forced to import from China and other countries essential products that it used to make inside its own borders: many drugs and their chemical precursors, large supplies of ventilators and safety masks, and so on.”
This loss of manufacturing capacity stems from the concept of “unbundling”—sometimes known as “off-shoring”—that originated with McKinsey (plus some others of similar bent) decades ago.
They opposed the vertical integration of U.S. companies such as GM and IBM that generated all aspects of their products and suggested menial tasks (in essence, actual manufacturing) be sent abroad where it could be done more cheaply. McKinsey (and those others) are responsible for the situation we are in now.
In McKinsey’s defense, believing that enriching China was the road to its democratization was a common belief for many years accepted by several administrations of both parties (actually, it may have been an excuse for good old-fashioned greed). But that belief has been shattered by recent events as we all sit locked in our apartments and houses, the People’s Republic of China having again shown its Maoist totalitarian roots.
Does the governor want to resurrect McKinsey’s brand of globalism, which means more appeasement of the People’s Republic of China, which caused the pandemic in the first place?
After all this, does he want to hold our supply chain (from antibiotics to face masks) hostage to despots?
I hope not. But I admit I’m flummoxed here. Cuomo would seem to be an intelligent man. He reads The New York Times, doesn’t he?
I realize this can be construed as guilt-by-association, and in a sense, it is. But it’s interesting that one of the great vulnerabilities that Joe Biden has—and that Cuomo is beginning to demonstrate—in the coming election is Biden’s, shall we say, overly friendly relationship with the People’s Republic of China.
“China is going to eat our lunch? Come on, man. They can’t even figure out how to deal with the fact that they have this great division between the China Sea and the mountains in the West. They can’t figure out how they’re going to deal with the corruption that exists within the system. They’re not bad folks, folks. ... They’re not competition for us.”
Given Biden’s son’s association with the Bank of China, this can’t be ascribed merely to being addle-brained. The Democrats, in general, are going to have to face up to their relationships with the People’s Republic. (Michael Bloomberg, if he’s really a Democrat, is in deeper than anyone.)
They all, including Biden, are going to have to learn to separate from the PRC if they hope to win in November.