The closure of schools amid the COVID-19 pandemic has forced millions of children to spend months at home, prompting online child predators to ramp up their sexual enticement of minors and the posting of child sexual abuse material, according to the latest data from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC).
According to the center, buyers of commercial sex with children have recently become reluctant to meet in person to engage in the illegal act. It’s unclear if the reluctance is related to the pandemic. Child traffickers have adjusted to this shift in demand to produce subscription-based services that allow buyers to access images and videos of a specific child.
The school closures associated with the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) virus, commonly known as the coronavirus, don’t appear to have had an impact on the number of reports of missing children, according to NCMEC. The center nonetheless said it is aware of 273 missing child cases in which the pandemic played a significant role. Some of the children ran away from home due to frustration with the stay-at-home restrictions. Others have run away from group homes for fear of catching the virus.
The COVID-19-related spike in predator activity online followed a year of explosive growth in the number of child sexual abuse materials found online. The Canada-based ARACHNID project, which uses artificial intelligence to identify images of abuse, sent 3.5 million notices to providers hosting the material over the course of a year starting on March 1, 2019, more than double the amount sent in the prior two years. ARACHNID sent more than 600,000 notices between March and July this year.
Child predators are increasingly exploiting the fact that children have access to smartphones. They pose as peers in online games and lure children into producing sexually explicit material. The predators then use the material they collected to extort the children into producing more abuse material by threatening to post the images online.
“There is not only a surge, there is especially a surge in the exploitation of special-needs kids, autistic mostly, who are not receiving the same level of engagement from outsiders and simply don’t understand the danger of their behavior online,” Opal Singleton, the president and CEO of Million Kids, a nonprofit that works to end human trafficking domestically, told The Epoch Times in an email.