The Australian prime minister, since banning Huawei from involvement in the country’s 5G network in 2018, has been actively countering Beijing’s unrestricted warfare operations, according to an expert in international law, conflicts, and terrorism.
The federal government has launched investigations into foreign interference and is ramping up its cyber capabilities and military strength as Beijing’s “grey zone” activities grow in the Indo-Pacific.
She spoke of “grey zone” activities, saying: “Cyber-attacks, foreign interference, and economic pressure seek to exploit the grey area between peace and war.”
“In the grey zone, when the screws are tightened: influence becomes interference, economic cooperation becomes coercion, and investment becomes entrapment,” she added.
According to Sascha-Dominik Dov Bachmann, an international law professor and an expert in grey zone (or hybrid) warfare, the Morrison government has countered Beijing’s grey zone activities since 2018.
Bachmann said Australia stands at the “forefront of trying to curtail the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) growing influence.”
“The CCP has been using the whole spectrum of what some people would call the grey zone; other people would call it ‘unrestricted warfare.’”
In 1999, two colonels from the CCP’s air force published a book titled “Unrestricted Warfare” in which they argued the CCP had limitless battlefields or domains that it could exploit to gain an advantage over a geopolitical rival. These domains included the environment, finance, trade, culture, and the legal sector.
“Winning without fighting is one of the maxims,” Bachmann said.
“It consisted of public opinion warfare or intending to project a positive image of China domestically and abroad.
“There was psychological warfare where China would undermine any enemy by deterring and demonising their country’s military personnel, and supporting civilian populations.
“From cyber, from influence operations, to basic trade boycotts, and diplomatic threats. It’s a whole spectrum,” he said.
In recent times, the CCP has shifted to a more aggressive style of “wolf warrior” diplomacy in Australia and around the world, which has seen Beijing engage in public attempts to influence government decision-making.
“In 2020, we have seen the CCP try to influence how the Australian government exercises its sovereign rights. That is a direct violation of sovereignty,” according to Bachmann, who said the CCP would also attempt to change public opinion and create backlash internally in Australia.
“When the Australian government stands tall, the CCP declares via the information sphere (with a holistic mix of trying to blackmail the government and people) a new narrative where Australia suffers tremendously in terms of trade, and in terms of academia,” said Bachmann.
“When it comes to trying to find and counter a hostile actor, you need a comprehensive approach combining anything a state actor can use including military, cyber, and intelligence capabilities,” Bachmann added.