Democratic Party presidential nominee and former Vice President Joe Biden has long championed more engagement with China, dating back to when he was a U.S. senator representing Delaware.
Meanwhile, his son Hunter Biden was involved with a Chinese state-backed private equity firm that made a range of investments in Chinese firms, some of which have close ties to the regime in Beijing.
These business activities have gained attention amid Joe Biden’s run for president.
Tony Bobulinski, a former business associate of Hunter Biden and recipient of that email, said “big guy” was a reference to Joe Biden.
Hunter Biden’s China dealings have raised questions about whether they influenced any policies while Joe Biden was vice president or if it would affect a Biden presidency’s handling of China.
The Biden campaign didn’t respond to a request for comment on the allegations by press time.
During the trip, he met with Deng Xiaoping, who was China’s vice premier at the time. Deng later became the regime’s paramount leader.
“As a young member of a Foreign Relations Committee, I wrote and I said and I believed then what I believe now: That a rising China is a positive, positive development, not only for China but for America and the world writ large,” Biden said.
He was also among those who urged Washington to normalize trade relations with Beijing.
Former President Bill Clinton signed a bill extending permanent normal trade status to China in October 2000, which paved the way for Beijing to join the World Trade Organization in December the following year.
A year prior, in 2008, Hunter Biden founded a consulting firm called Seneca Global Advisors, along with Chris Heinz, the stepson of former Secretary of State John Kerry, and others.
One of Seneca’s clients was a Chicago-based company called GreatPoint Energy. In May 2012, GreatPoint inked a $1.25 billion partnership deal with Chinese company Wanxiang Group to build a large-scale plant that converts coal into natural gas in the Gobi desert, in China’s far-western Xinjiang region. It’s unclear if Hunter Biden was directly involved in securing this deal.
The energy agreement came three months after Vice President Biden met with Xi Jinping, who was China’s vice chairman at the time, in Los Angeles. Xi is now the Chinese leader.
Wanxiang, an automotive components conglomerate that’s based in Hangzhou, China, is a publicly traded company with strong ties to the CCP. In 1997, the company was one of 120 companies chosen by China’s cabinet-like State Council to be “pilot business groups,” meaning that these companies received special government financial support.
The conglomerate’s late founder, Lu Guanqiu, was for many years a delegate of China’s rubber-stamp legislature, the National People’s Congress, until his death in 2017. His son, Lu Weiding, is Wanxiang’s current president and Party secretary.
They described the timing as a coincidence.
It’s unclear exactly what role the younger Biden played in securing BHR Partners’ deals.
In November 2017, Chinese state-run media reported that Megvii Technology, a Chinese facial recognition and artificial intelligence company, raised $460 million in an investment round, from a range of investors that included BHR Partners.
One of BHR Partners’ investments involves mines in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), which has in recent years has faced scrutiny over child labor allegations.