In commercial terms, the beneficiaries of all this data are Baidu, Alibaba, and Tencent—China’s equivalents of Google, Amazon, and Facebook—who feed it into a massive AI platform that powers algorithms to keep customers coming back for more, says national security expert and retired U.S. Air Force Brig. Gen. Robert Spalding.
But in societal terms, the same data can also be harnessed to influence more than just spending choices.
“Those same algorithms that get people to keep coming back to buy are the same algorithms that can be used to get them to like the Chinese Communist Party [CCP],” Spalding, the author of “Stealth War: How China Took Over While America Slept,” told The Epoch Times.
This idea forms the basis of China’s “social credit system,” which Samantha Hoffman of the Australian Strategic Policy Institute describes as “the use of big-data collection and analysis to monitor, shape, and rate behavior via economic and social processes.”
“So, think of it this way,” Spalding said. “Say, for instance, you’re on WeChat in China—you say Xi Jinping is great, Xi Jinping has wonderful ideas, and then you notice that the more you do that, the cheaper your products are … the cheaper your airline tickets are, the cheaper your shoes are, and then if you criticise, the more expensive the price.”
It is a powerful form of coercion to toe the party line.
“[The system] doesn’t stop at China’s borders. Social credit regulations are already being used to force businesses to change their language to accommodate the political demands of the Chinese Communist Party,” Hoffman wrote.
“As businesses continue to comply, the acceptance of the CCP’s claims will eventually become an automatic decision and hence a norm that interferes with the sovereignty of other nations. For members of the public on the receiving end of such changes, the CCP’s narrative becomes the dominant ‘truth,’ and alternative views and evidence are marginalised.”
Cybersecurity experts have also warned that TikTok can’t be trusted.
“TikTok is a data collection entity, a data collection app that’s disguised as a social media—it collects username information, the IP address of your telephone, of every computer on your WiFi network,” he said.
All this data could be fed into AI systems to understand how people behave right down to predicting how they think. With that knowledge, it may be possible to influence people’s behaviour, often without them even realizing it’s happening.
“Far beyond simply data collection—it’s a persuasion device,” Ellis said. “It uses artificial intelligence to feed videos, selected curated videos, to the users so you are being fed videos onto your device that are being selected by algorithms written by the Chinese Communist Party.”
“All that data being collected and making your life more convenient is again how they [the CCP] understand who you are as a person, what your belief system is, who you interact with,” Spalding said.
“Once they have an idea who you are, then they can begin to build that into the algorithms for the commerce that is coming on board.”
Your access to basic services such as health care, government, and transport services could then depend upon your citizen score.
“This is what they [the CCP] seek to export, and they export it through their global economics relationships with other corporate clients, other corporations outside their borders,” Spalding said.
“First it’s ‘bring your AI research centres to China’ and once our AI is better than yours, once we can compete with you in the market because we are going to be subsidised [by the Chinese state], you’ll first start to partner, then after partnering we slowly begin to take you over.
5G will enable much greater integration of technology—the “internet of things”—where all sorts of electronic items, from toothbrushes to driverless cars, are connected to the internet and can communicate with each other. And they all produce collectible data.
This network makes it increasingly difficult to escape your every movement and action from being logged.
“That’s the terrible thing, right?” Spalding said. “Today, you can throw your phone away [to avoid being tracked]. But when 5G is built, that millions of devices connected per square mile means wherever you go, you’ll get tracked, because it’s not your phone anymore, it’s the city built around you—it’s meant to track you.
“There’s nothing you can do then.”
Perhaps offering some hope, he doesn’t see this happening in Western countries for 10 years because of the infrastructure needed.
Andersen described a situation where cameras are positioned every few blocks, and there are multiple checkpoints, each recording citizens’ movements. If you want to leave the city, you must pass through another face and ID scan. Compulsory phone apps monitor online activity, including purchases and conversations. Compulsory “health checks” take blood and DNA samples. Voices are recorded.
Even electricity use is monitored to detect unauthorised residents. Staying off social media can also arouse suspicion.
But if the system that carries the data is compromised, even these measures might be useless.
However, even if Huawei isn’t permitted further input into infrastructure, there are still software insecurities, leaving any 5G network open to potential exploitation.
The only way to protect democratic populations from the CCP’s potential spying is to provide a completely new solution, Spalding said.
That solution and the way forward is the provision of an alternative and very secure 5G network, which builds in data privacy for end-users and therefore protections from the danger of subversion or control by the CCP, he says.
People can then, if they wish, choose that alternative for themselves.
“We have to take control of our own destiny as free people,” he said.