In a move to counter China’s tech ambitions, a bipartisan group of senators has introduced legislation aimed to boost the United States’ production and development of semiconductors—tiny chips that power everything from smartphones to missiles systems.
The bill, named the “American Foundries Act of 2020,” would authorize the U.S. Commerce Department to award $15 billion in grants to states to assist in “construction, expansion, or modernization” of semiconductor plants and facilities. States would be limited to receiving no more than $3 billion in grants.
It would also allocate $5 billion for the U.S. Department of Defense to provide grants for private sector entities to create, expand, or modernize their manufacturing or research facilities capable of producing “secure and specialized” chips for defense and intelligence purposes.
Additional funds of $5 billion would go to research and development of semiconductors to ensure “U.S. leadership” in the industry.
None of the funds appropriated under the bill may be provided to entities “under the foreign ownership, control, or influence” of the Chinese regime or other foreign adversaries, according to the bill text.
It also stipulates that the U.S. president will establish a subcommittee under the National Science and Technology Council for efforts such as “strengthening the domestic microelectronics workplaces” and “guiding and coordinating funding for breakthroughs in next-generation microelectronics research and technology.”
“America’s technological advantage played a decisive role in our victory in the Cold War, and it will be equally important to our ability to outcompete China over the coming decades,” Hawley said in the statement.
“The U.S. simply cannot afford to cede more ground to competing countries in the production of semiconductor technology, which is the bedrock of our country’s digital economy and defense systems,” said John Neuffer, SIA’s CEO and president.
According to the SIA report, the U.S. semiconductor industry had a market share of 47 percent in 2019, followed by South Korea with 19 percent, and China with 5 percent.
The United States is the leader in logic process technology, which is needed to manufacture advanced semiconductors such as artificial intelligence chips. According to the SIA report, the United States was four years ahead of China in this technology in 2010, and the same gap continued to exist in 2019. Meanwhile, Taiwan and South Korea closed the gap from being two years behind in 2010, to being neck-and-neck with the United States in 2019.