BEIJING—Chinese leader Xi Jinping visited Wuhan, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak, on March 10, marking the first time he has done so since the epidemic began late last year.
During his trip to Wuhan, he will “visit and express regards to medical workers, military officers and soldiers, community workers, police officers, officials, and volunteers who have been fighting the epidemic on the front line, as well as patients and residents during the inspection,” state news agency Xinhua said.
His arrival in the city at the epicenter of the outbreak came as a surprise to many as there had been no previous announcement.
The meeting said people may be permitted to start traveling but will be monitored using mobile-based tracking technology that was rolled out by many local authorities in China in recent weeks.
Meanwhile, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has directed officials across the country to ramp up propaganda efforts portraying the authorities’ efforts to contain the virus in a positive light, The Epoch Times has learned from an internal government document.
The central government recently declared 113 medical teams and 506 medical staffers as “model citizens” for their participation in the outbreak response. At the same time, internet censors continue to aggressively monitor and delete social media posts critical of the regime.
At the same time, the state-owned media has had dedicated news coverage highlighting the fact that these infected travelers returning from overseas hot spots, such as Iran, Italy, and South Korea now present a risk to China because they’re importing the virus.
Meanwhile, non-official channels, like social media posts that have yet to be censored, show a growing number of netizens from different Chinese provinces claiming that their cities have begun a second round of quarantine measures, with stricter rules.
On Saturday, a small hotel used to quarantine people under observation in southern Fujian province collapsed, killing at least 20, while 10 are still missing.