WASHINGTON—Dominion Voting Systems has come under scrutiny for its ownership structure after its parent company raised funds with the help of a Swiss bank before the 2020 U.S. presidential election. The transaction, peculiar in several ways, has led some to speculate that a Chinese entity could be an indirect investor in Dominion.
Staple Street Capital Group LLC, a New York-based private equity (PE) firm, acquired Dominion Voting Systems Corp. in 2018. The maker of electronic voting systems has been at the center of election fraud claims since Nov. 3.
The New York subsidiary operates as the investment banking division of the Swiss bank, providing investment and broker-dealer services to its global clients. In this transaction, UBS is assumed to serve as a placement agent, selling partnership interests of the PE fund to UBS’s clients.
The recent fundraising, however, prompted some to speculate that a Chinese entity or China-affiliated intermediary could be an investor in the fund, making it also an indirect owner of Dominion.
Dominion is a portfolio company of funds managed by Staple Street, and neither UBS nor the private equity firm have disclosed details of investors in its third fund despite questions surrounding Dominion’s ownership.
The article also mentions that while the third fund was targeting $400 million, it closed on $520 million in financing. And SEC filings suggest that UBS helped to raise the majority of the capital.
The speed and structure of the fundraising are abnormal, according to a senior executive at a large hedge fund in New York, who wished to remain anonymous.
“Typically, when you’re raising a commingled PE fund it is a year-long process with multiple closes. PE funds aren’t raised with just one close unless there’s a single strategic client taking up the entire fund, which may be the case if only one bank is involved.”
An LLC, or limited liability company, isn’t required to have a board of directors but it can choose to have one.
It’s unclear why these Chinese names appeared on the board of a New York subsidiary. UBS didn’t respond to requests by The Epoch Times for comment.
Based on public information, Ye Xiang served on the board of UBS Securities Co. Ltd. until his name was removed. Ye had been chairman of the board at UBS Beijing for more than 10 years. He previously worked at the Chinese regime’s central bank, the state-owned Bank of China, as well as the Hong Kong government’s financial regulatory agencies. He is also the founder of a China-based asset management firm VisionGain Capital Limited.
Luo Qiang also served on the board of UBS Beijing between 2004 and 2012.
And Mu Lina worked as the director of wealth management funds and head of fund operations at UBS Beijing, based on public information. Mu was previously a board member of China TransInfo, a major surveillance camera producer in China. It provides big data and artificial intelligence to Chinese authorities. Its chairman is a Chinese Communist Party (CCP) member. Mu served as a board member at China TransInfo for the past six years until she left the position in September.
UBS group became the first foreign company to own a full securities operation license in China in 2018. UBS Beijing’s board and executives are all Chinese nationals with strong ties to the CCP.
“No foreign national directly or indirectly owns or controls the company,” the statement read. “Dominion and other voting system manufacturers submit extensive company disclosures to federal and state authorities as terms of product testing and system certification. The company has no ownership ties whatsoever to UBS, or the governments of China, Cuba, or Venezuela.”