The Chinese regime continues to target top overseas talents through a well-financed recruitment program—the Thousand Talents Plan—which has come under close U.S. scrutiny for its perceived threats to national security, according to a series of internal documents obtained by The Epoch Times.
Rolled out by Beijing in 2008, the Thousand Talents Plan is China’s most prominent state-run recruitment program. Hundreds of similar operations exist at the central and local government levels, aiming to attract promising overseas Chinese and foreigner experts in the fields of science and technology to fuel China’s innovation drive.
The documents seen by The Epoch Times revealed that a dozen researchers and experts who received nominations to the program hold doctorate degrees from Western universities or have previously worked in Western companies and academic institutions.
One such list, compiled in late 2019 by a Shaanxi provincial government agency, showed all Thousand Talent recruits who were due to work in Xi’an city, the province’s capital. The document included their previous job titles and when they would begin working at a Xi’an local firm, according to the contract they signed.
The experts, from the United States, the UK, Australia, Denmark, Germany, and Japan, specialize in fields such as artificial intelligence, biomedical, pharmaceutical, and biochemistry—industries Beijing has targeted as part of its ambitions to become a high-tech manufacturing powerhouse.
One chemistry professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign who specializes in nanotechnology and molecular biology was nominated to the program and signed a contract with an information technology company in Xi’an in September 2019, the document shows.
Responding to an email inquiry, he told The Epoch Times that at the time, he was “in transition” to his current job and had considered going back to China to take the job of a part-time consultant at the Xi’an company. He later turned down the job offer and the nomination “exactly because UIUC and the US news media were educating people that those programs may have the ‘spy’ concern [sic],” and therefore, he has “never been in any talent programs,” he said.
Thousand Talents members sign binding contracts with Chinese institutions that may contain nondisclosure agreements, which can incentivize them to lie when applying for U.S. federal grants, set up “shadow labs” in China, and transfer U.S. intellectual property, the report said.
“The Party is in control of the talents,” declared a Shaanxi Thousand Talents Implementation Plan published in 2017, a phrase that has appeared in many Party speeches and policies over the years.
This wording in itself should arouse suspicions, said China affairs commentator Li Linyi. The reason for such an emphasis, he said, is that “the CCP needs the overseas experts to obey the Party and help the Party steal advanced foreign technologies.”
The latest publicly available information from the Shaanxi government showed that in addition to their salaries, “top talents” and those selected to join its “innovation team” can expect up to 2 million yuan ($294,906) in financial assistance, with additional incentives for training and research development arranged on an individual basis.
Under the program, recruits categorized as “young talents” and “foreign experts” also receive government awards of 300,000 to 1 million yuan ($44,236 to $147,453). The foreign experts would enjoy privileged treatment on visa stays, housing, health care, transportation, insurance, and their children’s education. “The relevant departments will provide highly efficient and convenient services,” according to the Shaanxi government.
To encourage them to work in the Xi’an high-tech zone, authorities could reward up to 4.5 million yuan ($663,540) per individual, with additional housing subsidies of up to 700,000 yuan ($103,217), along with extra living allowances.