An important aspect of the reset of the world economy and the decoupling of the United States and China is the business of world shipping and shipbuilding (the maritime domain) and the military situation (the naval domain).
The maritime and naval domains are key pillars of success in our struggle with the Chinese Communist Party. We have a powerful Navy and need an even more powerful Navy. Meanwhile, the maritime domain, an environment the United States once dominated, has become comatose at best.
“But I have to tell you ... the power of this maritime lobby is as powerful as anybody or any organization I have run up against in my political career.
But they could never quite master the strategic art of generating, projecting, maintaining, and logistically supporting far-flung naval operations. In many ways, they were a “port” navy, sitting pierside for show and propaganda purposes.
However, the grand 600-ship U.S. Navy of the Reagan days has shrunk to under 300 ships, and now, the U.S. Navy is struggling to generate and project naval presence at will. At one time, U.S. Navy carrier task forces were simultaneously forward in the Mediterranean, the Persian Gulf, and the western Pacific without breaking a sweat. Those days are a wonderful memory now.
A baffling turn of events.
So what are the issues and solutions to return the U.S. Navy to greatness? China’s People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) is developing naval projection capabilities on a large scale—they are no longer a “port” navy.
Having served on the defense secretary’s staff and the joint chiefs chairman’s staff at the Pentagon and seeing the big picture, I would say in many ways, it’s a loss of the bravado and “can do” spirit that once instilled confidence in the leadership and planning staffs.
I have absolute confidence in the chief of naval operations, Adm. Michael M. Gilday. He’s the right leader, at the right place, at the right time. Brought to the lead in interesting turns of events, he is the one to return the U.S. Navy to the John Paul Jones ethos, “I wish to have no connection with any ship that does not sail fast; for I intend to go in harm’s way.”
Next, a three-year sprint should be established to drive the U.S. Navy as far as possible toward a 400-ship Navy, with radically new capabilities with large swarms of autonomous air, surface, and sub-surface drones. Part of this sprint is expanding the industrial base so there are more shipyards in the United States and forward to build, maintain, and repair the fleet.
These shipyards are different than the shipyards needed for vessels of commerce—naval and maritime vessels are built to totally different design standards. The U.S. Navy needs to significantly increase the numbers of long-range missiles and air defense missiles—you can never have enough ammunition in a gunfight. Our forward facilities need to be expanded in numbers and readiness. All of these initiatives will help bring this three-year sprint to a successful objective of deterring the CCP from any form of action, anywhere in the world.
This proposal will, of course, initiate lively debate and discussion. The intent is to create a golden age and renaissance of American naval and maritime activities and incentivize significant growth and opportunities for the U.S. economy and national security interests.