The official account for the film on the social media platform, as well as the personal accounts of several crew members, were suspended by Twitter “indefinitely for no reason,” the documentary’s director Amanda Milius said in a statement.
The Twitter suspension was reversed as of Nov. 27.
Milius formerly worked for the Trump administration at both the State Department and the White House.
Congressman Devine Nunes, Donald Trump Jr., former Director of National Intelligence Richard Grenell, attorney Sidney Powell, President Donald Trump’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani, and former Deputy National Security Advisor KT McFarland are among the figures featured in the documentary.
It follows Rep. Nunes as he uncovered an operation to bring down President Donald Trump, “engineered by a coterie of the American establishment elite,” according to the film’s synopsis.
“Twitter needs to tell us and the rest of America why they are censoring us,“ said Milius, the film’s director. ”Our film is thoroughly researched; it is backed by independent sources and congressional testimony. Is Twitter trying to silence us because they can’t stand that a documentary exposing Russiagate as a giant hoax is the number 1 documentary in America?”
According to a separate image shared by Posobiec, the documentary’s Twitter account was suspended by the company for violating its rules against “platform manipulation and spam.”
“You may not use Twitter’s services in a manner intended to artificially amplify or suppress information or engage in behaviour that manipulates or disrupts people’s experience on Twitter,” the message from the company reads. “Note that if you attempt to evade a permanent suspension by creating new accounts, we will suspend your new accounts.”
The film details a “plot” not just against the president, “but the whole country,” its synopsis states.
“The plot began with the FBI opening a counterintelligence investigation on Donald Trump’s presidential campaign based on a falsified dossier paid for by an opposition candidate. It was an operation to sabotage a President and many U.S. private citizens. The conspirators included political operatives, the highest law enforcement and intelligence officials in the country, and especially the press,” it says.
“A country where operatives use the intelligence and security services to hold power by spying on Americans, coordinating with the press, and using extra-constitutional means to undermine an election and try to undo a presidency, is more like the third world than the republic envisioned by the founding fathers. Without Nunes and his team, the plot against the President—and against the country—never would have been revealed.”
In a response to Twitter’s temporary suspension of the documentary, Smith, who authored the book it was based on, told The Epoch Times, “Twitter’s suspension of the Plot Against the President Movie’s account is part of an ongoing campaign to prevent the American public from understanding the true nature of the illegal spying operation that targeted the Trump administration and the foundations of our republic.”
He added, “The reversal of the suspension is evidence not that the company has re-dedicated itself to the disinterested dissemination of fact and opinion, but that its apparently capricious decision-making process is rather purposely intended to enforce political orthodoxy through self-censorship.
“Drawing disappearing redlines to prevent potential ’transgressors’ from expressing opinions dangerous to the ruling regime is a tactic commonly employed by Third-World ministries of information around the globe.”