U.S. State Secretary Mike Pompeo said in an interview on Monday that President Donald Trump is evaluating measures to prevent intellectual property theft by Chinese nationals and students that could be rolled out over the coming weeks and months.
For decades, prior administrations, both Republican and Democrat, have turned a blind eye to these practices, Pompeo said. “No administration has taken this seriously until these last couple years when President Trump began to demand that we get this right.”
When asked by a host about the possibility of prohibiting entry to the United States for all students and researchers from China for a certain number of years, Pompeo reminded them that not every Chinese student in America is spying for the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).
But he said it is “absolutely the case” that Chinese students are being subject to regular surveillance by the CCP to make sure “they’re engaged in behavior that’s consistent with what the Chinese Communist Party wants them to do.”
But they cannot be considered spies “in the most formal sense,” he explained.
He added that the Trump administration is aware that many Chinese students who visit the United States or their families come under enormous pressure from the Chinese regime back home.
However, he said that Trump is “determined to stop this.”
“For the first time in decades, you have an administration that is taking this threat from the Chinese Communist Party seriously.”
The Chinese regime uses these stolen technologies and know-how to produce subsidized products to sell as competitors back in the United States, Pompeo said.
Products like Artificial Intelligence machine learning software or companies like a TikTok are examples of intellectual property theft by the CCP, he added.
The FBI, the Justice Department, and the State Department have joined efforts to combat such illicit activities and work toward the goal of establishing, “for the first time, a reasonable, a reciprocal trade arrangement with China,” Pompeo said.