Stealthily and with sweeping precision, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has been waging a decades-long war against the West to achieve world domination by utilizing a military strategy known as “unrestricted warfare.”
Unbeknown to most of the population, the CCP has infiltrated almost every major avenue of life in countries like the United States and Canada—leaving virtually no industry untouched. While this threat has largely existed undetected, the effect it has had on the targeted nations, as well as its geopolitical consequences, are far-reaching.
Skirting the traditional, direct military confrontation offensives that have become somewhat outdated in modern times, this unconventional strategy has become central to the communist regime’s approach to warfare.
The strategy is highlighted in the 1999 book “Unrestricted Warfare,” authored by two Chinese air force colonels—Qiao Liang and Wang Xiangsui—and published by the People’s Liberation Army, the armed forces of the CCP. The book, which has been translated into English, is based on the original army documents.
Beijing uses an array of subversive tactics, including but not limited to propaganda warfare, culture warfare, memetic warfare, front operations, political infiltration, technological and telecommunications warfare, legal warfare, economic espionage, education espionage, cyberwarfare, and sanctions warfare. The regime employs all of these to varying degrees simultaneously in multiple sectors of society in order to undermine or influence the targeted country.
The Chinese regime, for example, has “harnessed technologies and tactics that have outpaced the evolution of international law to avoid their actions being classified as conflict under the current definitions of international law,” Carter said.
To counter this threat, Carter said the British Armed Forces have adopted a new “Integrated Operating Concept.” The strategy, which marks a significant shift in military thinking, is a response to the advancing technology and non-traditional tactics, such as disinformation campaigns, used by adversaries.
“This strategy integrates aggressive diplomacy, asymmetrical economic agreements, technological innovations, as well as escalating military expenditures,” the report says.
“There’s a need for a broader recognition of the risk … a recognition of the fact that elites at every level are subject to efforts at this kind of co-opting, whether it’s school boards, small-town mayors, university presidents, individual members of Parliament—there’s a lot of attempt at this kind of influence,” said Genuis, a member of the Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China, an international cross-party group of legislators, in a recent interview.
Liberal MP John McKay describes China as the “colonial power of the 21st century.”
FBI Director Christopher Wray testified in 2018 that the bureau was attempting to view the danger posed by China “as not just a whole-of-government threat, but a whole-of-society threat on their end.” To counter China’s strategy effectively, Wray said the United States must also employ a “whole-of-society response.”
This summer, Washington announced that it is banning TikTok as well as Chinese social media WeChat, citing national security concerns. TikTok is racing against time to sell its U.S. business to an American firm, while both companies have launched legal challenges on the ban.