WASHINGTON—The U.S. export credit agency is providing relief measures for American exporters that face payment and liquidity issues caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
As part of the relief efforts, Exim established a temporary bridge finance program to help foreign buyers get short-term financing for their purchases of U.S. goods and services. The program is intended to address scarce credit options because of the pandemic.
The bank also has expanded its existing working capital and supply-chain finance programs to help exporters navigate through the turbulent times.
“Those programs become very important during the economic or any type of crisis because liquidity becomes a big issue,” Jim Burrows, senior vice president at Exim’s small business group, told The Epoch Times.
In addition, Exim has provided a 90-day extension of payment deadlines on debts for foreign buyers. Exporters will also have a 90-day extension for filing claims with the bank related to the non-payment of invoices.
“It’s business as usual. We have not seen a downturn in application volume,” Burrows said. “In fact, we’re anticipating an upward trend in application volume because of the crisis.”
The virus has also impacted private lending markets, which makes it difficult for American exporters to sell products. Certain private sector insurers or banks may reduce trade financing due to uncertainty and liquidity issues.
And some even have started to pull out of certain markets, Burrows said, adding that Exim will be able to fill in the gap and continue supporting U.S. exporters.
In December, President Donald Trump signed into law a seven-year reauthorization of Exim, the longest extension in the agency’s 86-year history. The law has established a new “Program on China and Transformational Exports” that targets Chinese export subsidies around the globe.
“We’re looking at program enhancements in order to allow our American exporters to compete head-to-head with China,” Burrows said.
The bank is working on developing “tactical plans” for short term as well as medium and long-term programs to compete directly with China, he said.
China has three export credit agencies that it uses to promote its national interest abroad including its ambitious development program, Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The Chinese Communist Party has made the initiative a centerpiece of its plans to grow its geopolitical influence.
In 2018, China’s export credit agencies provided almost the same amount of medium and long-term financing as the export credit agencies of the United States, the UK, France, Japan, Canada, Italy, and Germany combined, according to Kimberly Reed, Exim’s president and chairman.
“The sheer volume of the Chinese activity is not the only source of concern. They do not play fair,” Reed said in January at the American Association of Port Authorities Shifting Trade Conference.