Editor-in-chief of The Bee, Kyle Mann, shared an email sent to the outlet by the tech giant on his personal Twitter account, detailing the reasons behind the suspension.
“Your account, TheBabylonBee has been suspended for violating the Twitter Rules. Specifically for: Violating our rules against platform manipulation and spam,” Twitter said in its e-mail to the Bee.
“You may not use Twitter’s services in a manner intended to artificially amplify or suppress information or engage in behavior that manipulates or disrupt’s people’s experience on Twitter.”
News of the site’s suspension caused the hashtag #FreeTheBee to go viral on Twitter. The Bee’s account was reinstated less than an hour later.
“Let me be very clear: I am a far-left progressive, in a company full of far-left progressives, in a city full of far-left progressives, in an industry full of far-left progressives,” Dorsey fictitiously tweeted in the satirical piece. “But Twitter is not just for people like me who dwell in liberal cocoons—no, Twitter is also a place for ANYBODY else who shares my opinions exactly.”
In its emailed apology, Twitter told the conservative Christian humor site that its account was mistakenly caught in a spam filter.
“We’re writing to let you know that we’ve unsuspended your account. We’re sorry for the inconvenience and hope to see you back on Twitter soon,” Twitter wrote in the email, which was shared by the outlet’s Seth Dillon on the social media platform.
“We have systems that find and remove multiple automated spam accounts in bulk, and yours was flagged as spam by mistake. Please note that it may take an hour or so for your follower and following numbers to return to normal.”
Adam Ford, who created The Babylon Bee in 2016, said on Twitter Tuesday evening that the site had gained close to 100,000 Twitter followers since its account was reinstated.
The Babylon Bee is among a number of conservative satire and parody accounts that have been suspended recently, including NPC Daily, Liberal Larry, Titania McGrath and Jarvis DuPont.