While many countries around the world still struggle to contain the outbreak of the CCP virus inside their borders, Beijing seeks to take advantage of the global health crisis to advance its economic goals, according to a new report.
This would include promoting the use of Chinese technologies, such as telecom company Huawei’s 5G infrastructure.
This month, several Chinese officials expressed their views on how the pandemic could provide economic opportunities for China.
On March 4, Han Jian, director of the China Industrial Economic Association, which operates under the Ministry of Civil Affairs, wrote on state-run media Xinhua Daily, “It is possible to turn the [pandemic] crisis into an opportunity—to increase different countries’ trust and dependence on ‘Made in China.’”
The next day, the municipal government in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province, told a local daily about its economic plan, as it relates to the virus.
“Make use of the important window after the epidemic and focus on the strategic opportunities, such as the new technological revolution it will bring about,” the Chengdu government stated. It also called for local sectors to be more “deeply integrated” into the global supply chain, pointing to the importance of developing local sectors such as robotics and biomedicine.
On March 12, a commentary by Song Zhiping, a former representative to China’s rubber-stamp legislature, the National People’s Congress, and former chairman of state-owned company China National Building Materials Group, published in state-run newspaper People’s Daily said China will “turn crisis into opportunity.”
As global industrial chains face the challenge of “reorganization” following China’s epidemic, Chinese firms should enhance their competitiveness, he wrote.
In February, before explicit discussions about leveraging the outbreak appeared in state-run media, Beijing announced state support for industries that had to shut down, amid nationwide lockdown measures to prevent the virus from spreading.
Beijing stated that strategic sectors would be prioritized to receive state funding, according to a Feb. 9 announcement by China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.
Horizon Advisory also pointed out ways that Beijing planned to secure foreign investment post-epidemic, “to pursue its strategic ambition.”
“Beijing intends to reverse recent U.S. efforts to counteract China’s subversive international presence; at the same time to chip away at U.S.-Europe relations. In other words, Beijing will use COVID-19 to accelerate its long-standing, strategic offensive,” Horizon Advisory wrote, pointing to recent remarks by Chinese professor Tian Feilong, a deputy professor at Beihang University.
Tian, in a March 12 article published on an online academic platform called China-US Focus, stated: “Europe may fall into an economic downturn under the blow of the epidemic. Unprecedented mutual needs and opportunities in China-EU economic cooperation will emerge and deepen, including in 5G industries.”