Meanwhile, an internal government document revealed more details about how authorities monitor close contacts of confirmed patients.
Since the virus spread across China from the ground zero of Wuhan in January, Beijing city enacted restrictions to contain the virus in the politically important region.
As in most regions of China, hotels in Beijing have been converted into quarantine centers.
“Now in Beijing, almost all hotels that are three stars or better are being used by the government as quarantine centers to isolate people temporarily,” Li said.
Li specially mentioned two districts in Beijing—Haidian district, which is close to the Xiaotangshan makeshift hospital currently dedicated to treating virus patients, and Chaoyang district—where more hotels are being used as quarantine centers.
“They [authorities] used iron barricades to surround and block off the hotels that are used as quarantine centers. They set up three layers of gates to enter the hotels,” Li said. “People who deliver food can enter the first door, then staff who work at hotels can enter the second door. They place the food in front of the third door, and people inside will pick up the food from there.”
In March, several interviewees told the Chinese-language Epoch Times that there were three options for people who have to self-isolate at quarantine centers in Beijing: luxury hotel, medium-level hotel, and normal hotel, with different facilities, meal quality, and price.
Li said that because most hotels were now used as quarantine centers, hotel room rates for ordinary travelers have become more expensive.
Liu said she checked all government-released documents and databases, and did not find her name in any close contact lists, so she and her husband complained to the community health service center.
On Feb. 14, the center’s deputy director, also surnamed Liu, replied to Mrs. Liu and explained that the published close contact lists are from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), but there were “other systems” of tracing and recording contacts of a virus patient, such as through people who report infections to other government agencies and artificial intelligence surveillance cameras that can detect individuals who were near a virus patient.