On May 31, the 25-member Politburo, comprised of the highest-ranking Chinese Communist Party (CCP) officials, held a “study session” summoned by Chinese leader Xi Jinping. The main topic was about strengthening China’s international propaganda and renowned scholar Zhang Weiwei was invited to give a speech.
Xi emphasized the importance of “telling the China story well” and building a more “lovable” image. So why is Zhang useful in this regard? Zhang is the director of the China Institute of Fudan University and a leading political scholar on promoting the Chinese regime’s model of development, its ideology, and narratives, according to the China Institute website. Zhang is popular in China—he has been invited as a keynote speaker at high-level government meetings on various occasions, owns his own video channels, and has published several books. Zhang’s recent appearance at the Politburo meeting could also indicate that the CCP seeks to strengthen its internal propaganda campaign.
Zhang blamed the West for not understanding the CCP. “The China story has not been told very well, especially in a way that foreigners can understand. Yet I think it’s mainly a problem on the part of the West because the rise of China is so unexpected. They could not believe in a so-called communist country, a socialist country, so they have a lot of ideological and cultural obstacles to get over in order to grasp the real meaning and essence of the rise of China.”
“In my view, the internet firewall is a type of governing wisdom,” Zhang stated, “because less than 5 percent of the population in China is interested in politics and the firewall helps keep it that way. The firewall has prevented the Western hostile forces from politicizing everything, just like how they did it in Hong Kong. ... The firewall can prevent people from becoming political.”
Zhang believes that Chinese people are better off being preoccupied with non-political posts from their own circle of friends.
With regards to the one person per vote election system, Zhang believes that social media poses challenges. “On open social media platforms, with the help of big data and artificial intelligence, it is very easy to identify a user’s political view. Consequently, it is possible to sway their political views, and manipulating the votes of the general public is entirely possible.”