Making a greater effort to attract top experts from around the world was listed as a priority in China’s 14th Five-Year Plan, which was just passed in the regime’s recent Two Sessions meeting in Beijing on March 11.
When talking to Radio Free Asia, American-based Chinese economist Cheng Xiaonong said the new Five-Year Plan is an extension of China’s previous Thousand Talents Plan. The essence is the same; both plans intend to steal foreign intellectual property and advanced technology by poaching experts from overseas.
Only the new Five-Year Plan is more aggressive.
“Previously, the so-called ‘poaching’ was mainly done through spies in the field of technology. Later on, the U.S. government imposed tougher control on [spying], they thought about poaching experts, together with the technology. If you succeed in poaching experts, you naturally get the technology too,” said Cheng, who is also an Epoch Times contributor.
He said the goal of the new Five-Year Plan is still in key areas related to military expansion.
It lists the following key areas: quantum information, photonics and micro nanoelectronics, internet communications, artificial intelligence, biomedicine, modern energy systems, integrated circuits, life and health, brain science, bio-breeding, aerospace technology, deep sea, deep earth, polar exploration, and so on.
According to the plan, more investment will be poured into basic research, and experts will be heavily rewarded.
The so-called Thousand Talents Plan is the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) program to identify and recruit high-level overseas experts; it’s been in place since December 2008.
Apart from the national level Thousand Talents Plan, the CCP also has other plans, such as the Hundred Talents Program of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Changjiang Scholars Program of the Chinese Ministry of Education, as well as a number of local government recruitment programs.
Policies that can enable high-end foreign experts and professionals to stay and work in China, as well as a permanent residence system for foreigners, should be perfected, the plan says.
In the meantime, the establishment of a skilled migration system should be explored.
Systems should be established to ensure that foreign experts and professionals can have better salaries and benefits, social security, tax incentives, as well as good education for their children, and so forth.
The plan says that in order to “actively promote open cooperation in science and technology,” a more open and inclusive, mutually beneficial, and shared international science and technology cooperation strategy should be implemented.
China should also take the lead in “designing and initiating international scientific programs and projects,” allow the science funds to play a unique role, increase the opening of national science and technology programs to the outside world, launch a number of major scientific and technological cooperation projects, study the establishment of global scientific research funds, and implement scientist exchange programs.
The report states, “Despite the Chinese government’s public announcements in 2008 of its intent to recruit overseas researchers with access to cutting-edge research and absorb, assimilate, and re-innovate technologies, the FBI did not identify Chinese talent recruitment plans as a ‘threat vector’ until 2015.”
China is the most aggressive among countries that “seek to exploit America’s openness to advance their own national interests,” the report states. “Federal agencies are not prepared to prevent China from transferring taxpayer-funded research and stealing intellectual property.”
Since 2018, the FBI has increased the number of arrests and prosecutions of Thousand Talents scholars.
Keping Xie, a former professor in gastroenterology research at the MD Anderson Cancer Center, and a member of Thousand Talents Plan, was part of the FBI’s focus.
He was accused of receiving $50,000 per month in salary, $158,000 per year in living expenses, and more than $1.5 million in research funding from Wuhan University of Technology in China.
In September 2020, Turab Lookman, a former employee of Los Alamos National Laboratory, was sentenced to five years of probation and fined $75,000 for lying about his participation in the Thousand Talents Plan.
She said in December 2020: “At this point, it would be really hard to find people putting [their participation in] Thousand Talents on a resume in the U.S. That doesn’t mean that all talent programs are gone.”