Technology regulations emanating from Beijing are a foot in the door that may someday take away your right to drive.
Now envision those networked cars with artificial intelligence (AI) autonomous driving capabilities and no need for a steering wheel. What used to be the freedom of driving has now reduced drivers to passenger pulp, to be transported along government-approved routes, to government-approved jobs, and back to government-approved apartments.
In competition with C-V2X is 802.11p V2X, which goes by the name “dedicated short-range communications” (DSRC). 802.11p can be described more simply as super reliable WiFi for cars.
If efficiency gains from V2X are true, then countries that do not adopt V2X could be at an economic, and therefore ultimately a military, disadvantage.
Safety and efficiency, however, comes at the expense of the driver’s freedom, which could be curtailed by data servers that take control of your car if, for example, you are deemed to be socially undesirable for any arbitrary reason or because you are driving five miles over the speed limit on a low-traffic highway.
Lack of freedom in authoritarian countries is itself a safety risk. So any safety gained through self-driving cars, without better protection from totalitarian regimes, entails externalized safety risks that at least in part cancel out the safety gains. V2X cuts both ways.
With V2X, that kind of heroism would come to an end. All cars data-linked to government-controlled servers, and potentially monitored in terms of number of inhabitants and speech, would make smuggling dissidents and refugees out of China much harder.
Other freedoms in China could be lost as well, like having a job on the side. If all car movements are tracked and surveilled by government officials, with unaccounted driving patterns getting flagged and reported to authorities for investigation, getting to a side job could be much more difficult.
Having non-approved friends, such as those with low social credit scores, could be impossible if one cannot explain why one drove to that friend’s neighborhood on a weekend.
These are the unintended political and social consequences, the second- and third-order intangible effects that do not enter the calculations of profit-maximizers at Mercedes-Benz, Buick, and Qualcomm, as they cheerlead for Beijing and its imposition of V2X technologies onto a vulnerable population that has no right to make decisions for itself.
AI and self-driving vehicles that are fully networked threaten to take away the freedom to drive like nothing else before. This is unlikely to happen in democracies anytime soon because voters defend their right to drive even, for example, when that right is made inefficient by massive traffic jams in the world’s biggest cities. Electronic toll collection systems such as E-ZPass in New York, which allow quick passage through automated toll booths, are almost always voluntary in democracies.
Democracies typically vote against extra congestion charges for inner-city driving because driving is often seen as a human right—to be enjoyed by the rich and the poor equally. Driving is equated with freedom and is part of that American identity.
Driving Mercedes-Benz research, development, and design in China are its growing car sales in the country, which jumped 12 percent in 2020 to 774,000. Mercedes-Benz car sales in China are ahead of its sales in the United States (275,000 cars) and Germany (286,000 cars) combined. Approximately 80 percent of Mercedes-Benz sold in China are made there, usually with China-only models and features. In 2021, Asia accounted for almost 50 percent of Mercedes-Benz global sales. As China’s 1.4 billion population rises toward middle-class status, luxury car sales in the country are expected to skyrocket. Chinese demand for cars is forecast to increase from 25 million in 2021 to 35 million in 2030.
So Mercedes-Benz and the German government are falling over themselves to ensure that Beijing stays happy with the company. The strategy is to stay several steps ahead of regulators, including on the matter of V2X. “If you respond to change after policies and regulation kick in, it’s too late,” said one of Reuters’ contacts close to Daimler.
According to Reuters, “the tech centre works closely with the brand’s external affairs team which keeps its finger on the regulatory pulse—and that has proved key when it comes to so-called vehicle-to-everything, or V2X, technology.”
By 2025, new vehicles will likely be required to have full V2X capabilities installed to reach the top safety ranking according to the China New Car Assessment Program (C-NCAP).
Chinese nationalism is playing a part in the Mercedes-Benz technology developments, including “styles inspired by China’s ancient dynasties,” according to Reuters. One of Reuters’ sources close to the design studio explained that some of the ideas developed there would go global. “Global ideas, inspired by China,” he said.
V2X technologies will constrain what few freedoms remain to citizens in all countries, including the right to control one’s own car. Just imagine committing a traffic violation and losing control of your car to the data center, which locks you inside and autopilots you straight to the nearest police station.
It’s a dystopian vision of future driving, but the CCP continues to surprise us in how dystopian it can become. And our democratic governments continue to surprise us in terms of how far they take their appeasement of Beijing.
That freedom through driving that one feels at the wheel of one’s own real car, before the advent of networked AI fleets without steering wheels, could be taken, little by little, from future generations. The unthinking promotion by advertisers, Big Tech, car corporations, and the likes of Huawei of ever faster and slicker technologies could be leading to an enfeebled humanity that eventually ends in the subordination of their driving experience to government-controlled data centers. Get ready for that future or take control of your own destiny.