He clarified in his comments to The Epoch Times that senior military leadership needed to get out of the way and stop preventing U.S. warfighters and private contractors from doing their jobs by providing needless hurdles.
“We need to stop over-classifying all this information regarding Chinese threats and advances in AI so U.S companies can be more aware and want to proactively join us in the fight,” Chaillan said.
Importantly, Chaillan said that he considers the Pentagon’s current technology predicament to be equally a crisis of leadership as it is one of technology, and that the military’s technological capacity would be blunted so long as the Pentagon refused to implement a shared network across the services.
“We must change the mindset and the secretary of defense must mandate the DoD services to merge their work across Cloud, connectivity, edge, and DevSecOps work and embrace best of breed capabilities like Platform One and Cloud One,” Chaillan said, referring to Air Force’s software development platforms. “One Team, One Fight!”
Chaillan also called for a mandate that would move the Pentagon to DevSecOps and agile methodology. DevSecOps is a design approach that implements security as a core part of the development cycle, alongside development and operations, for the entire lifespan of a project. Agile methodology refers to a popular method of developing and continuously improving IT projects in a cyclical method.
Such efforts, Chaillan said, were necessary to ensure that the DoD maintain “the pace of relevance.”
Chaillan said that not all was lost in America’s fight to maintain AI superiority with China, but the window of opportunity to maintain that edge was closing. The United States’ only hope would be to quickly transform its cyber efforts in a tangible way by getting bureaucrats and careerists out of the way, and focusing on the real needs of warfighting, he added.
“We must ask Congress to take action and work with the DoD to create a real sense of urgency and stop investing in reports but instead invest in tangible outcomes and warfighting capabilities while embracing our values and care for ethics and privacy,” Chaillan said.