When you think of artificial intelligence (AI), what images spring to mind? Murderous robots kicking down your door, enslaving you and your loved ones? If so, you’re not alone.
Before delving into specific risks, it’s important to differentiate between AI and artificial general intelligence (AGI). The former refers to a system that’s capable of rivaling or surpassing human cognitive abilities. However, in order for the machine to perform the function, a human must first program it. As it’s fed more and more data, the “machine” becomes a more proficient problem solver. In other words, AI machines are pre-programmed. We see that with speech processing and image recognition devices, both of which are excellent at performing one-dimensional tasks.
“China is now a peer technological competitor,“ Schmidt wrote. ”It is organized, resourced, and determined to win this technology competition and to reshape the global order to serve its own narrow interests. AI and other emerging technologies are central to China’s efforts to expand its global influence, surpass the economic and military power of the US, and lock down domestic stability.
“China funds massive digital infrastructure projects around the world while seeking to set global standards that reflect authoritarian values. Its technology is being used to enable social control and suppress dissent.”
In a commentary piece for Defense One, Klon Kitchen and Bill Drexel, two researchers intimately familiar with security threats, discussed the very real dangers of conducting AI research in China. In one particularly striking section, the authors focus on Microsoft’s Beijing-based Research Asia Lab, one of the largest facilities in Asia. In fact, “over the past two decades,” it has become “the single most important institution in the birth and growth of the Chinese AI ecosystem.”
With the world understandably fixated on events in Afghanistan, it’s important that we remain focused on China, the United States’ largest competitor. Of course, traditional terrorism, in the form of the Taliban and al-Qaeda, poses a genuine threat. But the most significant threat comes from technologically-enhanced terrorism.