Each of our games is supervised by the Go teacher. He writes down the moves, and then analyzes them, asking the right questions. So, how does the game Go help achieve business goals and find problems in the team, and why is it similar to psychotherapy?
The game expands a participant’s worldview, leading him or her to think bigger and, at the same time, make informed decisions. Previously, the game was taken to the battlefield to simulate a battle, but now entrepreneurs use Go to simulate market situations. This turns business almost into a martial art.
Go gives entrepreneurs an opportunity to evaluate the decision quickly. In real life, it takes years and hundreds of thousands of dollars. If you, without strengthening a position, put a stone too far away, be ready to receive an attack from a competitor in a non-protected area. Everything in the game works exactly as it does in business.
To make a decision, we turned to the Go teacher and asked him to run a game for us. As a result, we realized that the stones (investments) that we have are enough to achieve business goals in a region with no competitors and great potential for growth. We have successfully launched in India and the Philippines, attracting a customer base there. Now we plan to start working in Malaysia and Vietnam by the end of the year.
More recently, we laid out on the Go board a product strategy in a new region: how quickly we need to scale and when to build barriers for competitors. As a result, a new strategy was born over the board, which has not yet been used by anyone in the online-education market.
This practice also encourages developing skills around shared vision, communication, flexibility, strategy, simplification and analysis of one’s own actions.
For instance, once our head of product marketers and one of the co-founders played on the same team. They are both very prudent, so they acted cautiously and ended up in a secure but too-small position on the field. We realized that both in Go and in real life, in order to get a harmonious team, it is important to balance the skills and mindsets in the team.
Working out the moves with a teacher allows you to notice how much personality influences your choices. When the teacher asks you why you made such a move, you begin to explain it to yourself and notice your own bugs.