For four years, former President Donald Trump’s administration broke with previous U.S. governments to confront the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) head-on, pushing back against its malign actions aimed at remodeling the world to its own brand of techno-totalitarianism.
The administration recognized the vastness of the Chinese regime’s infiltration campaign that has left virtually no aspect of American society untouched, China experts say. Trump administration officials have described Beijing’s threats as an all-out assault against America’s economic prosperity, national security, and freedoms, as well as that of democracies around the globe.
In doing so, the United States repudiated the decades-held conventional wisdom that informed a policy of engagement toward Beijing—that economic liberalization would lead to a more democratic China. That thinking is now widely accepted as wrong.
“Trump tore a hole through the CCP propaganda line that is for peace, and mutual development and mutual cooperation around the world,” he said. “The CCP had been able to get away with this lie for many years, whether it was under a Republican or Democrat president.”
The transformation of U.S.-China relations under Trump was such that “it can never go back to the way it was,” Waller said. He added the Biden administration is now “hemmed in” from pursuing a more accommodationist approach towards Beijing. Indeed, President Joe Biden’s secretary of state, Antony Blinken, at his recent Senate confirmation hearing, admitted that “Trump was right” to take a tough-on-China approach, although he disagreed in how it should be done.
While the U.S.-China trade war dominated headlines for much of Trump’s presidency, a range of other actions was set in motion tackling economic and national security threats from Beijing. But in early 2020, when it became evident that the Chinese regime covered up the severity of the CCP virus outbreak—allowing it to spread across the world—the administration turbo-charged efforts to confront Beijing. The result was a “whole-of-government” clampdown.
Launched last spring, the program quickly took off with about 60 partnered countries, representing more than two-thirds of the world economy, and 200 telecom companies joining the alliance by January.
“Countries and companies are terrified of the CCP’s doctrine of intimidation, retaliation, and retribution. And that, basically, is a bully. When you confront a bully, they back down. And they really back down if you have your friends by your side,” he said.
Trump officials were vociferous in their warnings that Huawei and other Chinese technology companies, in both software and hardware, could be used by Beijing for spying. They cited Chinese laws that compel companies to cooperate with intelligence agencies when asked, as well as that all entities in the country are beholden to the CCP.
The United States’ relationship with Taiwan also warmed significantly during the Trump administration. Last year, it sent two high-level officials to visit the democratic island, the first of whom was then-Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar. He was the highest-level U.S. Cabinet official to visit since the United States switched formal relations to China from Taiwan in 1979. Arms sales to the self-ruled island, which Beijing threatens to seize by force if necessary, also increased.
“We’ve stood by our friends in Taiwan,” Pompeo said in a Jan. 7 tweet. “Over the past 3 years, the Trump Administration authorized more than $15 billion in arms sales to Taiwan. The Obama Administration? $14 billion dollars in sales over 8 years.”
“Most Americans have no idea that their own money—held in pension funds, 401(k)s, and brokerage accounts—is financing CCP’s military, the surveillance state, and human rights abuses through an undisclosed opaque web of subsidiaries, index funds, and financial products,” Krach said in January.
“Actually, what you need to get the message across is punitive measures, the kind of sanctions that the U.S. has introduced.”