The U.S. government is not likely to be assisting Australia in its negotiations with Facebook after the U.S. tech giant moved to cut off Australians from sharing or accessing news on its platform last week, according to U.S. Department of State spokesperson Ned Price.
At a press briefing on Feb. 19, Price deflected questions about whether the United States would join in with other world leaders to support or take a position on Australia’s News Media Bargaining Code that will see tech giants Facebook and Google pay news publishers for content.
Price noted that the situation involved business negotiations between multiple private companies and the Australian government.
While Price was vague about where the United States stands between supporting its greatest ally and one of its most successful private enterprises, other world leaders have voiced their support for Australia, including in Canada and the United Kingdom.
Canada is drafting similar legislation to Australia’s code, and its heritage minister, Steven Guilbeault, said Facebook’s actions would not deter them.
“Canada is at the forefront of this battle … we are really among the first group of countries around the world that are doing this,” Guilbeault said. “I suspect that soon we will have 5, 10, 15 countries adopting similar rules … is Facebook going to cut ties with Germany, with France?”
The head of the British parliamentary committee overseeing the media industry said Facebook was “bullying” Australia.
“I think it’s staggeringly irresponsible at a time when we are facing a plethora of fake news and disinformation in relation to the COVID vaccine,” he said. “This is not just about Australia. This is Facebook putting a marker down, saying to the world that ‘if you do wish to limit our powers … we can remove what is for many people a utility.'”
“In every way, Australia has led the way when it comes to this issue, as we have on other occasions,” Morrison declared. “When it comes to the tax treatment of goods that Amazon were selling in Australia, or the display of violent extremist material on social media platforms, we led that charge together with New Zealand, particularly Australia, through the G20. And so we’re no strangers to taking the lead on this.”
Facebook has returned to the Australian government’s mediation process after one of its executives apologised to Australia for the blackout.
Milner noted that instead of using human reviewers of content, Facebook had chosen to utilise an artificial intelligence program to identify what was news in Australia.