International critics are questioning the impartiality of a World Health Organization (WHO) team that recently conducted a fact-finding mission in Wuhan to probe the origins of the CCP virus.
However, the composition of the WHO team has come under scrutiny. In particular, some experts have relationships with the Chinese regime, raising conflict of interest issues.
Leung Man-to, a political science professor at Taiwan’s National Cheng Kung University, told The Epoch Times that the independence of the findings was compromised by the fact that foreign experts chosen by the WHO needed to first be approved by Beijing.
In October last year, Mike Ryan, executive director of the WHO’s Health Emergencies Program, said during a meeting that “a list of candidates has been submitted to the Chinese authorities for their consideration and for next steps in order to deploy that team.”
Given the experts were vetted by Beijing, Leung said that it was unlikely their findings would stray from the CCP’s narrative of the virus origins.
“Simply put, we can reasonably infer that the conclusions of the findings were long written up, and [Beijing] simply needed people [foreign experts] to lend their support,” Leung said.
He added that the independence of the findings was further compromised by the fact that Chinese experts were part of the team.
In September 2018, Daszak said that EcoHealth was a recipient of CCP money, while taking part in a conference sponsored by Chinese state broadcaster CGTN, the international arm of China’s state broadcaster CCTV.
“Our organization has been working in China in collaboration with Chinese scientists in the government of China for over 15 years, supported by federal funding from the U.S. and federal funding from China,” Daszak said.
The sheet also said the lab was engaging in secret animal experiments for the Chinese military since 2017. It was also conducting “gain-of-function” research on viruses—which involves creating artificial viruses with new or enhanced capabilities, according to the fact sheet.
Beijing has repeatedly refuted suggestions that the virus was leaked from the institute. On Jan. 18, China’s foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chungying during a daily briefing accused the fact sheet as being “filled with conspiracy theory and lies.”
Last September, Daszak appeared in a CCTV documentary on China’s fight against the pandemic. He praised China’s early responses to the outbreak, saying it was “unprecedented and is incredibly efficient.”
Beijing rolled out BRI in 2013 in an effort to expand its global influence and build Beijing-centered trade networks by financing infrastructure projects throughout Southeast Asia, Africa, Europe, and Latin America.
She also lauded Chinese regime’s responses to the outbreak. According to a February 2020 article from the CCP’s official mouthpiece People’s Daily, the Dutch virologist praised Beijing for how quickly it was able to build a field hospital in Wuhan to treat patients.
He added: “Now, any conclusions of the investigation will be tainted by one more fragment of uncertainty.
“Regrettably, the only plausible way out of this situation is to start over–to disband the WHO team, and charge a neutral, non-political body with reconstituting it. To ensure the highest degree of independence, all members of the new team should have the full protection of diplomatic immunity.”
Leung told The Epoch Times that had former U.S. President Donald Trump won his re-election bid, his administration would either reject the WHO findings outright, or be a more forceful critic of the body than the Biden administration.
Several former Trump officials have rebuked the WHO team and its findings.
“It’s made up of people who have benefited from public funding to work in the very lab where this thing may have actually originated from the Wuhan Institute of Virology,” Pottinger said.