The University of Alberta says it’s willing to work with all levels of government after a report revealed that the university had been collaborating with China in critical research areas that could undermine Canada’s national security.
“We have asked the federal government for further direction about international collaborations.”
Some professors and researchers at the university have even entered into joint ventures with Chinese companies and state institutions, setting up companies that commercialize Canadian-developed technologies, the report states.
The Epoch Times reached out to the University of Alberta for comment on the specific allegations.
“More needs to be done to curb foreign state infiltration in our research and innovation centres, including our postsecondary institutions,” he said.
Sixty University of Alberta professors have since received grants for over 90 joint projects with state and national labs in China, while the university’s researchers have gained access to at least 50 of those labs.
One such tactic is through its “‘talent programs’ and academic exchanges to exploit Canadian expertise,” the report said. Beijing’s Thousand Talents Program encourages Chinese scientists in Canada to transfer their research to China so that the regime can “steal hard-won research and proprietary data” created by Canadian companies.
Former CSIS Director Richard Fadden said Parliament should prohibit universities from receiving grants from China and collaborating with their researchers in critical areas such as high level optics and nuclear as the risk is “too great.”
“Because no matter how well intentioned a [university professor or team in Canada may be], who receives a Chinese grant, whatever he or she discovers—it’s going to go back to China,” Fadden said during a testimony before the Commons Committee on Canada-China Relations on May 3.
“If you accept my basic premise that China is indeed an adversary, I don’t think we should be making it easy for them to acquire intelligence on areas that are pretty critical to the national security of the West.”