The National Counterintelligence and Security Center (NCSC) launched an outreach campaign on Oct. 22 to warn and instruct U.S. organizations engaged in critical and emerging technologies about the dangers posed by foreign states’ counterintelligence operations.
“In recent months, NCSC has begun engagements with various entities in these sectors to provide information on nation-state threats to their organizations and ways to mitigate risks,” said Dean Boyd, chief communications executive for the NCSC, in an email to The Epoch Times.
“We plan to step up our engagements and broaden our reach going forward. Our goal is to reach the broadest audience possible.”
The NCSC warned that China and Russia, in particular, were seeking to steal or otherwise co-opt American technologies for their own ends, and could supersede the United States in key fields within the next decade.
Boyd underscored the severity of the situation by noting that the NCSC had knowledge of multiple instances in which American technology was co-opted and utilized by the Chinese regime.
“There are multiple examples in which technology, data, talent and intellectual capital from these emerging U.S. technology sectors have been acquired by the PRC government and put to use in fulfilling the PRC’s national and geopolitical goals,” he said.
The factsheet, titled “Protecting Critical and Emerging U.S. Technologies from Foreign Threats,” said that China and Russia were leveraging legal, quasi-legal, and illegal means to supplant U.S. dominance in five key sectors.
“These sectors produce technologies that may determine whether America remains the world’s leading superpower or is eclipsed by strategic competitors in the next few years,” the factsheet said.
The NCSC, which is part of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, stressed that it is not urging companies to “decouple” from China completely, but that it is seeking to engage American organizations to better protect critical and emerging technologies.
This is because Chinese national security laws require that companies engaged in business in China share information with the government, military, and intelligence agencies, experts say. These laws also extend to Chinese nationals abroad—such as Chinese investors who give money to American startups and thus gain access to intellectual property associated with their investments—who could be forced by the Chinese regime to divulge that information.
Boyd said that some of the organizations contacted as part of the campaign already conduct business in mainland China, while others did not.
He also noted that some companies had a firm understanding of related security issues, while others were wholly unaware of China’s national security and intelligence laws.
The NCSC factsheet noted the laws, and warned that they were a key factor in China’s continued ability to challenge U.S. dominance.