White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on July 22 that the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) recent move to reject a second investigation into the origins of COVID-19 is “dangerous” and called on the regime to allow investigators inside the country without any interference.
But the vice minister of China’s National Health Commission, Zeng Yixin, rejected the WHO’s proposal on July 22 and claimed that the proposal “did not respect common sense and violated science,” noting further that Beijing “cannot accept this kind of plan for origin-tracing.”
When asked about CCP officials’ comments during a briefing, Psaki said the United States supports the WHO’s proposal for the second phase of its investigations into the origins of the virus. A second probe must be transparent and free from any interference, she noted.
“We have certainly seen the [CCP’s] comments, again, rejecting phase two of the WHO study. We are deeply disappointed,” Psaki said. “Their position is irresponsible, and frankly, dangerous. It’s not a time to be stonewalling.”
Chinese regime officials have long insisted that the CCP virus was transmitted from bats to a yet-to-be-identified intermediary animal and then to humans. They have categorically rejected the theory that the pathogen escaped from a top-level virology lab in Wuhan, the epicenter of the pandemic.
Critics have said that an earlier WHO-backed investigation in January was marred by a lack of transparency on the part of Chinese officials, who didn’t provide investigators with certain raw data nor records of the Wuhan lab. More than a dozen countries, including the United States, Australia, and the UK, later raised concerns about the credibility of the WHO investigation and cited a lack of access to “complete, original data and samples” in China.
The Wuhan lab theory also became a controversial topic during the 2020 election. A number of posts by news outlets, including The Epoch Times, were flagged by Facebook for including details about the potential lab leak, triggering concerns that the Chinese regime may have a hand in censoring information in other countries regarding the origins of the CCP virus.
A January fact sheet released by the outgoing Trump administration questioned the activities being conducted at the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV). It said WIV scientists had begun conducting experiments involving RaTG13, identified to have the closest genetic similarity to the COVID-19 virus, from as early as 2016. The lab was also conducting “gain-of-function” research, that is, creating artificial viruses by adding new or enhanced capabilities, the fact sheet said.