During that time, the U.S. intelligence community looked to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for information about the outbreak. But the CDC in turn was reliant on its Chinese counterparts for data, Pottinger said.
“The problem was the Chinese Communist Party did not turn to their CDC to deal with this crisis. They turned to their military. And our CDC did not have relations established with the Chinese military,” he said.
Based on media reports, the head of China’s CDC didn’t know about the outbreak until Dec. 31, 2019, Pottinger said. This was the date Chinese authorities officially confirmed a cluster of infections in Wuhan, which was one day after local doctors warned of a SARS-like virus on social media.
“So it looks like the Chinese CDC to some extent was cut out because the Chinese Communist Party turned to its military to try to cover this thing up, to try to contain it until it was too late,” Pottinger said.
U.S. public health experts were misled by these CCP statements downplaying the severity of the outbreak, which were also parroted by the World Health Organization (WHO), Pottinger said.
American health officials should have sought out information from doctors on the ground in China, rather than “relying on the Chinese government to spoon-feed us what we would need to know,” he said.
Pottinger, who covered the SARS outbreak in 2003 while working as a China correspondent for The Wall Street Journal, said he reached out to old contacts in China in late January 2020 to try to get the real picture of what was happening.
The sheet said the United States has “reason to believe” that several WIV researchers became sick with symptoms consistent with both COVID-19 and common seasonal illnesses in the autumn of 2019.
It also included “the fact that we have very strong reason to believe that the Chinese military was doing secret classified animal experiments in that same laboratory, going all the way back to at least 2017,” Pottinger said. “We also know that they were working on viruses, doing gain-of-function research study, technical sorts of experiments with viruses, including a virus that was discovered in the southwestern province of Yunnan that is most similar to the virus that we all now know as COVID.”
Gain-of-function research involves creating artificial viruses with new or enhanced capabilities, often to study what new viruses could emerge and how to protect against them.
Given that WIV was doing this kind of research, Pottinger said it’s “highly possible” that this “led to some kind of an accident that seeded the COVID pandemic.”
“If you weigh the circumstantial evidence, the ledger on the side of an explanation that says that this resulted from some kind of human error, it far outweighs the side of the scale that says this was some natural outbreak,” he said.
He noted that the fact sheet was a “very carefully crafted statement” that had been vetted by many divisions within the State Department, staff at the White House’s National Security Council, intelligence officers, and the Department of Health and Human Services.
“I don’t see any evidence that this panel of researchers affiliated with the WHO was able to get any information on any of these questions,” he said.
White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan has called on the CCP to provide more data on the early spread of the CCP virus.
“We do not believe China has made available sufficient original data into how this pandemic began to spread both in China and then eventually around the world,” Sullivan told CBS News in the same report.
“We believe both the WHO and China should step up on this matter.”
Pottinger said that some of the WHO team sent to China were “deeply conflicted.”
“It’s made up of people who have benefited from public funding to work in the very lab where this thing may have actually originated from the Wuhan Institute of Virology. You have people who were hand-selected by the Chinese government,” he said.
Pottinger said the WHO investigation amounted to “a situation where it’s like you’re turning to the rabbits to investigate what happened to the lettuce that they were guarding.”