The amendment to Schumer’s proposal, offered by Republican Sens. Joni Ernst of Iowa and Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire, recognizes that the NSF has a checkered history of wasting millions of tax dollars on projects of highly questionable value. It would require grant recipients to make public the percentage of the total cost of a project that would use tax dollars, as well as the dollar amount receiving public funding in all official descriptions such as news releases, requests for proposals, and bid solicitations.
The NSF director would be able to withhold up to 25 percent of the funds to enforce compliance with the disclosure requirement.
“The bill gives the NSF the authority to provide for the widest practicable and appropriate dissemination of information within the United States concerning the NSF’s activities and the results of those activities.”
In addition, the Schumer proposal would dramatically increase NSF’s work in the areas of critical technologies in the national security sector of advanced technology research.
The proposal also directs the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy to develop on an annual basis “a strategy for the federal government to improve national competitiveness in science, research, and innovation to support the national security strategy.”
In addition, the bill directs the Department of Commerce to “(1) establish a supply chain resiliency and crisis response program to address supply chain gaps and vulnerabilities in critical industries, (2) designate regional technology hubs to facilitate activities that support regional economic development that diffuses innovation around the United States, and (3) award grants to facilitate development and implementation of comprehensive regional technology strategies.”
But the problem is, Ernst said, that “beating Red China requires more than just sending billions of dollars to an agency that has a long track record of wasting your money on silly, needless studies.”
“What we need to win is a clearly defined mission, with goals and—most importantly—leadership, along with the necessary financial support,” she said.
“Operation Warp Speed is a great example. Washington set a clear mission and provided the resources to our expert scientists and dedicated medical professionals who then went to work and developed multiple safe and effective vaccines in record time.”
“The Endless Frontier Act is the key to preserving America’s position on the world stage as a current and future technological leader in the 21st Century,” Schumer said.
Sen. Todd Young (R-Ind.), the main Senate GOP co-sponsor of Schumer’s bill, said in the statement issued by the majority leader that he supports the proposal because “right now, the Chinese Communist Party is emphasizing to the world that the United States is a divided nation.”