The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is engaged in a decades-long, concerted effort to modernize and upgrade its capabilities. Most recently, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has laid out a nearly 30-year-long agenda for the development of the PLA.
In particular, this phase entails moving from “informationized warfare” to the next level of military modernization, which the PLA and the CCP have termed “intelligentized warfare.” Intelligentized warfare essentially entails the PLA’s weaponization of such cutting-edge technologies as artificial intelligence in order to gain a predominant technological advantage over its rivals, particularly the U.S. military, according to the regime’s plans.
In support of this ambitious agenda, the Chinese defense industrial base has extensively expanded and modernized, bankrolled by generous increases in military expenditures over the past 20 years or more.
Since the beginning of the 21st century, China’s arms industry has churned out an increasingly impressive array of modern armaments, including state-of-the-art destroyers and cruisers, new types of submarines (both nuclear and conventionally powered), all manner of advanced missile systems, improved tanks and armored vehicles, and so on. Many of these weapons systems are competitive with their Western counterparts.
Perhaps no segment of the Chinese defense industry has witnessed more progress than its aerospace sector, particularly when it comes to combat aircraft. Not too long ago, the Chinese fighter jet industry was notorious for its poor quality and obsolete products. Its “best” fighter jets were the J-7 and the J-8II; the former was a clone of the Soviet-designed MiG-21—a plane that first flew in the 1950s—while the J-8II was a problem-plagued indigenous project so bad that the PLA never fully embraced it.
In addition, China has two “fifth-generation” combat aircraft programs—the J-20 and the J-31—currently in the works. The J-20 first flew in January 2011, and the J-31 followed suit in October 2012. The J-20 is already in low-rate production for the PLAAF. Meanwhile, the J-31 was recently spotted at a naval aviation training facility in Wuhan, driving speculation that it may be the PLA Navy’s next-generation carrier-based fighter jet.
At the same time, China’s modern fighter jet programs remain cloaked in mystery—and even deceit. It is believed, for instance, that the J-20 and J-31 have benefitted heavily from industrial espionage aimed at foreign fighter programs, particularly the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. At the same time, the actual details surrounding both the J-20 and J-31—how stealthy they are, how advanced is their radar and other avionics, what kind of sophisticated weaponry do they carry, etc.—remains sketchy. Consequently, one should be skeptical as to how much these planes are true fifth-generation fighters.