Major publications never tire of publishing pieces on the most important topics of our time, such as COVID-19, the demise of religious values, and the rise of cyberwarfare. Yet, somewhat incredibly, they consistently fail to report on one of the most horrific crimes occurring today: forced organ harvesting in China.
In other words, the Chinese regime was—and presumably still is—creating a gene bank.
Back in March, as the Reuters report detailed, members of the U.S. government had voiced concerns about BGI. They were particularly worried about “a vast bank of genomic data” that was being amassed and analyzed with artificial intelligence. This “could give China a path to economic and military advantage,” they argued. Their concerns appear to have been warranted, as such data could “propel China to dominate global pharmaceuticals, and also potentially lead to genetically enhanced soldiers, or engineered pathogens to target the U.S. population or food supply.”
In this age of advanced warfare, it appears that the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) will go to great lengths to further its nefarious agenda.
“Falun Gong has been and is, for many, more popular than communism in China, and the current regime is jealous of this,” said KaYan Wong, a keynote speaker and spokesperson for Falun Gong in the Netherlands.
Because of this jealousy, Falun Gong practitioners are being targeted by the regime. They’re brutalized and detained against their will, then their organs are harvested and their lives are taken away.
“[The] persecution of the Falun Gong started as far back as 1999, and since then, it has been illegal to practice Falun Gong in China,” Wong said.
The aim of the Chinese regime is clear: to “demonize Falun Gong and treat it as a cult,” Wong said.
Innocent people are being massacred. Where is the global outcry? Where are the marches—the protests in the streets? Imagine if such practices were occurring in the UK or Canada—would the world sit idly by and remain silent? The answer is obviously no. Then why does China get a free pass? And make no mistake about it, the CCP is getting a free pass.