Official Chinese state-approved footage from four years ago showing bats being kept at the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) has further fueled scrutiny of the research conducted at the secretive facility.
A 2017 promotional video featured on the website of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), a top Chinese state-run research institute that administers the WIV, showed live bats held in cages inside the lab. In it, a researcher wearing blue surgical gloves was holding a bat and feeding it a worm.
The video, made after the research institute obtained the nation’s first P4 designation—the highest bio-security classification—in spring 2017, also showed bats in a cage inside the lab. It stated that WIV researchers had collected more than 15,000 bat samples from various parts of China and Africa.
While some overseas Chinese-language media had cited the video last year in reports that raised concerns about the lab, it has attracted more attention of late, as the possibility that the virus may have escaped from a Chinese laboratory has gained traction.
The evidence of live bats being raised at WIV contradicted statements made by U.S. zoologist Peter Daszak, one of the World Health Organization (WHO)-led experts who went to the city of Wuhan to study the origins of the virus earlier this year.
Daszak, in a Twitter post made last December that he has since deleted, took issue with an article from The Independent that stated that “samples from the bats were sent to the Wuhan laboratory for genetic analyses of the viruses collected in the field.”
“That’s not how this science works. We collect bat samples, send them to the lab. We RELEASE bats where we catch them!”
Daszak further stated that the article “describes work I’m the lead on & labs I’ve collaborated [with] for 15 yrs.”
A scene from the same video of a bat dangling off the hat of a researcher, who wore only a pair of glasses and a regular surgical mask while collecting bat samples in the wild, has raised further questions about the security measures at the lab.
The bats “could bite your hands through the glove,” WIV researcher Cui Jie told CCTV. He described the feeling as similar to “being jabbed by a needle.” In other footage, marked with the date Dec. 28 with no year attributed, another WIV researcher was holding a bat outdoors with both hands exposed.
In 2018, U.S. officials who visited the research facility sent cables back to Washington warning about weak safety standards at the lab.
The construction of the P4 lab was finalized in 2015. In 2017, former French Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve made the lab his first stop in Wuhan and attended the ribbon-cutting ceremony. The plan at the time was to have 50 French researchers go to the lab over the next five years, but that never occurred.
The 2017 Wuhan lab video briefly mentioned the Sino–French collaboration, noting that the two sides had “more than a decade of intense clashes due to differences in cultural backgrounds and ideology.” It noted that the P4 lab “will definitely contribute to the physical health of the public and the world peace” and serve as a “large scale world-class technology sharing hub.”