China will increase its military budget to 1.35 trillion yuan (about $207.8 billion) in 2021, which is 6.8 percent higher than 2020, Chinese state-run media reported on March 6. One expert told The Epoch Times that the Chinese Communist Party (CCP)’s top priority is to strengthen its military.
The report didn’t quote any official number, but claimed the data was from two overseas media. This is a typical way the Chinese regime releases information that it might change in the future or doesn’t want to officially announce.
The report said China would spend 1.35 trillion yuan (about $207.8 billion) in military in 2021, which is 6.8 percent higher than the budget in 2020.
On March 5, Premier Li Keqiang announced: “The target of China’s gross domestic product [GDP] growth rate in 2021 is no less than six percent.” The defense budget will increase 6.8 percent, which is 0.8 percent more than the estimated GDP and matches the Chinese regime’s investments in past years.
In 2020, China’s economy was hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, floods, droughts, locusts, African swine fever, and exports were in free fall for months.
Li also asked local governments at different levels to support the development of the military.
The document explained: “The military and civilians should plan the technology’s development as a whole, share the resources and facilities with one other, transfer the technologies to both uses, and co-develop the key businesses.”
The plan mentioned human resources: “Strengthen the joint training of military and civilian personnel, complete the system that supports the personnel to work for either military or civilian, set up common qualification certifications [that both military and civilians accept].”
The plan reiterated several times about modernizing and developing advanced weaponries, and equipping the military with intelligent weaponries.
The defense ministry then claimed that China wouldn’t pursue hegemony nor expansion and believes in defensive defense.
“It’s well known that the Chinese regime eagerly wants to unify Taiwan [with the mainland],” U.S.-based China affairs commentator Tang Jingyuan said. “It’s just a question of timing.”
Tang believes that Xi Jinping wants China to compete with the United States, which is the reason that he set his administration’s political slogan as “strong China.” Xi’s slogan is different from former Chinese leader Mao Zedong’s “stand up” and Deng Xiaoping’s “rich China.”
“The Chinese government calls Taiwan a treasure island. It wants to occupy Taiwan, which can make the Beijing regime stronger,” Tang added.
Based on his observation, Tang believes that Xi plans to unify Taiwan with the mainland during U.S. President Joe Biden’s term.
The 2022 Olympic Winter Games will be hosted by Beijing and begin on Feb. 4, 2022. The event is meant to promote peace, but China will lose the role as host if it launches a war before or during the games.
“The most important point is that Xi Jinping worries about his position in the regime, or more accurately the Party. [Former leaders] Jiang Zemin’s faction and Hu Jintao’s supporters don’t support Xi,” Tang said. “If Xi launches the war now, he will lose his power if he can’t unify Taiwan in a very short time … something like within one week.”