The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) announced on Jan. 6 that it would resume delisting the three Chinese telecom stocks—China Mobile, China Telecom, and China Unicom (Hong Kong)—after saying it would stop doing so on Jan. 4.
Unlike U.S. telecom companies., Chinese telecom companies are state-run. But how are they tied to the military?
China Mobile’s ultimate controlling shareholder China Mobile Communications Group Co., Ltd. is a state-owned enterprise (SOE). China Mobile was born from the 1999 break-up of China Telecom, which originated as a Chinese state agency of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. China Unicom (Hong Kong)’s controlling shareholder China Unicom is another SOE.
All three companies are ultimately managed by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC). The State Council, under the premier, is the highest authority in the Chinese state (which is in turn subordinate to the Chinese Communist Party). The fates of these companies, in fact, are determined by high-ranking Chinese Communist Party (CCP) officials and their families.
The three Chinese mobile carriers actively develop their new networks and technologies to support the Chinese regime’s developing strategies, such as the Internet of Things (IoT) and mass surveillance.
China Tower is an SOE established in July 2014 by merging the telecom tower businesses among China’s three telecom giants: China Mobile, China Unicom, and China Telecom. These three telecom companies are China Tower’s main customers and shareholders.
The U.S. government recognized that the three Chinese telecom companies are involved in the PLA’s development.
This executive order states that the CCP exploits the U.S. capital market to fund its military and intelligence apparatuses and develop threats to the United States. And it bars American investments in such military-civil fusion companies.
Huawei won the contract to build the first telecommunication network for PLA in China in late 1990s. It also played a key role in the “Golden Shield” project, a nationwide surveillance project that Jiang Zemin and his son Jiang Mianheng championed.
It’s an open secret in mainland China that between the 1990s and 2010s, Jiang Mianheng was in charge of China’s telecom industry. Chinese people nicknamed the industry Jiang’s “Telecom Empire” and Jiang Mianheng “the Telecom King.”
China Unicom, one of the three telecom giant companies to be delisted, merged with China Netcom in 2008. Jiang Mianheng once held China Netcom via the Shanghai Alliance Investment Ltd. (SAIL).
The company initially made investments into Shanghai’s telecommunications infrastructure and tech firms and has engaged in other high profile projects over the years—massive state construction projects, entertainment companies, and ventures with Hollywood studio DreamWorks, Microsoft, etc..
But SAIL remained a shady operation since its inception—it held no opening ceremony and never released business reports. It does not even appear to have a website.
For years, SAIL was registered under Jiang Mianheng’s name although it was ostensibly the investment arm of Shanghai city government. SAIL was widely understood in China at the time to function as something like Jiang Mianheng’s personal piggy bank.
In 2014, this freewheeling period came to an end, with the firm integrated into the central government’s SASAC. It’s unclear when SAIL changed its registered legal representative, which should be in the early 2010s.
Beijing-based commentator Hua Po told The Epoch Times in September 2014 that the move—taking oversight of SAIL from the Shanghai city government to SASAC based in Beijing—was “possibly an attempt to whitewash Jiang Mianheng’s involvement.”