The time is long past in which China should be regarded as a respectable member of the international community. Not only does the Chinese Communist Party brutally suppress its own people but its actions pose a clear and present danger to freedom and peace throughout the world.
But what to do? War isn’t an option except in self-defense. China’s military is one of the most potent in the world. Any significant armed conflict with China would be beyond catastrophic for the entire planet.
Wait, isn’t a major purpose of the Games to forge peace and mutual understanding among nations?
Sure. But, if a country is going to benefit from the prestige and financial gain that comes from hosting the Olympics, that honor should at least require concomitant compliance with a modicum of international human rights standards. Otherwise, the entire premise of the Olympics is made a mockery.
OK, Wesley, there is no question that China is an authoritarian menace. But the Olympics are supposed to be above such considerations. After all, the 1936 Summer Games were held in Nazi Germany.
That’s true. But Hitler narrowly avoided an international boycott and those Games were held years before Germany launched the Holocaust and began to invade neighboring countries. Indeed, Kristallnacht, the pogrom that launched the worst anti-Semitic actions in Germany culminating in the Holocaust, didn’t occur until Nov. 9 to 10, 1938.
But let’s turn that question around. Would the world, say, in 1990, have countenanced holding an Olympics in apartheid South Africa? The answer is obvious.
Besides, there is a chance that boycotting the Olympics (or changing its site) would be moderately effective. China’s rulers may be indifferent to the sanctity of life, the rule of law, human rights, and international norms, but they do care about commerce and “face.” If the International Olympic Committee seriously contemplated a move, if corporations seriously threatened to cancel sponsorships, if media threatened to stay away, it could have a beneficial impact.
Yes, I know a boycott will disappoint innocent athletes. But their significant sacrifice could result in the lives of Uyghurs, Falun Gong, Tibetans, and Chinese Christians being made somewhat more bearable.
And if the world decides to turn a blind eye, to disregard mass human rights abuses in the name of business as usual and empty promises of international goodwill and comity by attending the Games? There is at least one small thing every one of us can do. We can refuse to watch and purchase the products of its sponsors.