As every aspect of modern life becomes more and more digitized, not just the economies of nations, but their sovereign influence will rely more and more on their command of technology, and especially the emerging technology of artificial intelligence (AI).
In the 21st-century information technology revolution, whoever reaches a breakthrough in developing AI will come to dominate the world.
Putin expressed his concern about Russia’s role in the artificial intelligence race in the forum—its two competitors, the United States and China, are far ahead of other countries in the AI race.
“We must, and I am confident that we can become one of the global leaders in AI. This is a matter of our future, of Russia’s place in the world,” Putin added.
Though the United States is still the world leader in terms of AI, China is quickly moving to take its place.
“We’re losing this battle,” Chaillan said. “If we don’t act now and don’t wake up right away … we have no fighting chance in succeeding 10 to 15 years from now.”
Chaillan suggested if the United States doesn’t take aggressive action, it will lose its advantage over communist China in the AI field within ten years.
To bolster the rapid development of AI, the CCP has issued a number of supporting policies and regulations, including its “Made in China 2025” and “13th Five-Year Plan.”
In 2017, China’s State Council issued the “New Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan,” emphasizing the significance of AI in helping the government understand and control society.
“Artificial intelligence technology can accurately perceive, predict, and early-warn the major trends of society. [It can] grasp people’s cognition and psychological changes and proactively decide the responses. [This technology] will significantly improve the ability and level of social governance. It is irreplaceable for effectively maintaining social stability,” according to the plan.
“It will have a profound impact on government management, economic security, social stability, and global governance.”
Hong Kong finance and economics columnist Alexander Liao said the CCP believes the emerging technology revolution—artificial intelligence—can bring new life to the authoritarian system, which was on the verge of collapse.
In 2013, the CCP proposed the “Modernization of National Governance System and Governance Capacity” plan and adopted it five years later in its 2019 plenary. According to the Chinese state-run Xinhua News Agency, the project is “a series of institutional arrangements aimed to make China’s governance system increasingly complete, scientifically standardized, and operate more effectively.”
In 2014, the CCP launched the “Social Credit System,” which linked the social behavior of all ordinary citizens with the large-scale monitoring system in mainland China. It adopted facial recognition and big data analysis technology to carry out large-scale social control with AI.
By 2020, the system has been integrated into almost all public service fields, including employment, education, loan services, travel ticket purchases, and more. This control method has been fully popularized in the form of “health codes” during the CCP virus pandemic.
Former NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) engineer Qu Zheng told The Epoch Times that the CCP’s facial recognition technology was already mature in 2018.
“They put the entire AI system inside the cameras; there is no need for them to monitor through screens anymore,” Qu said.
Tasked with trying to remain undetected for as long as possible in Guiyang, a capital city of about 3.5 million in southwestern China, Sudworth attempted to evade the facial recognition system but was captured by the authorities in just seven minutes.
Almost all large tech companies in mainland China are supported by American capital. For example, Chinese tech giants Baidu, Tencent, Alibaba, and ByteDance—the parent company of TikTok—have been publicly listed and heavily invested in by Wall Street over the years. In turn, these Chinese tech giants invest heavily in China’s domestic tech companies, including Chinese AI startups.
Wall Street’s direct investment and venture capital have brought its high-tech business incubation mechanism to Mainland China, helping China create high-tech industries that compete with the United States. And yet, it is the CCP that controls these industries.
According to CB Insights, a business analytics company, AI startups raised a record $26.6 billion in 2019, spanning more than 2,200 deals worldwide. Startups in the United States accounted for 39 percent, China 13 percent, followed by the United Kingdom 7 percent, Japan 5.3 percent, and India 4.9 percent.
AI is not a standalone technology but a part of the entire high-tech industry, including 5G, cloud computing, big data, the Internet of Things, mixed reality (MR), quantum computing, blockchain, edge computing, and other new generations of information technology. AI and high-tech industries mutually support and constitute the future of the entire social economy.
Beijing is the CCP’s primary training base for AI experts. Tsinghua University’s “Experimental Computer Science Class” was founded in 2005 by the world-renowned computer scientist Andrew Yao. And Peking University’s “Turing Talent Training Program” was started in 2017 by American computer scientist John Hopcroft who designed the training program and curriculum. Hopcraft personally taught and trained Beijing’s AI experts from undergraduate to doctoral degrees.
Andrew Yao and John Hopcroft are both recipients of the Turing Award from the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). The Turing Award is often referred to as the computer science equivalent of the Nobel Prize.
Yao was both a Taiwanese citizen and a naturalized U.S. citizen before he renounced his U.S. and Taiwan citizenship to obtain Chinese citizenship. He completed his undergraduate education in physics at the National Taiwan University before completing a Doctor of Philosophy in physics at Harvard University in 1972 and then a second Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Illinois in 1975. Yao has taught at MIT, Stanford University, UC Berkeley, and Princeton University. In 2004, he became a professor at Beijing’s Tsinghua University.
Hopcroft is a well-known American theoretical computer scientist. He received his master’s degree and Ph.D. from Stanford University in 1962 and 1964, respectively. He has taught at Princeton University and Cornell University. Hopcroft’s textbooks on the theory of computation (also known as the Cinderella book) and data structures are regarded as standards in the field of computer science.
“When one party’s drones are destroyed by drones of another, it will have no other choice but to surrender,” Putin added, predicting that future wars will be fought by drones.
That same year, the CCP incorporated AI developments into its national strategy and set goals to become the global leader by 2030.
However, the CCP has become a major competitor to the United States in the field of AI with its rapid expansion in recent years. Deloitte’s report shows that from 2015 to 2020, the average annual compound growth rate of the global artificial intelligence market was 26.2 percent, while the growth rate of the Chinese AI market during the same period was 44.5 percent. Another report by Deloitte suggests that in 2025 the scale of China’s artificial intelligence industry will exceed $85 billion.
There are two crucial elements in the broad applications of AI; the graphics processing unit (GPU) and data. The GPU determines the computing power, and the quality of data determines the time required to train the AI.
The central processing unit (CPU) has been known as the brains of the computer where most calculations take place, yet it is composed of a few cores with lots of cache memory that can only handle a few software threads at a time.
A graphics processing unit (GPU), on the other hand, consists of hundreds of cores through which parallel computing is possible. In AI applications, the architecture prefers graphics processors (GPUs) over central processing units (CPUs). GPUs are particularly suitable for performing calculations such as analysis, prediction, and machine learning.
China uses its massive population for data collection in developing its local AI technology. Tang Bohua, a patent examiner in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, told the Chinese publication of The Epoch Times that the CCP’s lack of regard for human rights and privacy opens up a huge data set for them while the United States’ respect for this rights keeps data incomplete.
According to Tang, the CCP forces Chinese tech companies to collect data on its users through various means. The collected data are used to train AI, rapidly speeding up the development of its AI applications.
“Western society believes there are dangers in AI technology; hence there are moral and legal restrictions. Also, there is privacy protection. As a result, the quality of the collected data may not be good and is unlikely to produce good applications.” Tang said. “AI is not an easy industry [in America].
“However, the CCP has no such concerns.”
In terms of infrastructure, the three internet giants have their own complete platforms for collecting data and attracting experts. In addition, China’s nearly one billion internet users give BAT a massive advantage in data.
Internet giants will require thousands of petabytes of data volume, while smaller enterprises will require petabytes, and personal data will require terabytes. One petabyte is equal to 1,024 terabytes.
According to the Deloitte report, since 2015, chips have become China’s largest import item. Before 2015, China’s chip imports were close to oil imports, but suddenly, it more than doubled its chip imports to $220 billion in 2015. This figure exceeded $300 billion in 2018 and $350 billion in 2020. And its chip imports increased by more than 30 percent from January to May 2021.
However, all three companies (BAT) announced new developments in 2021 for domestic chip manufacturing.
In July, Tencent opened online job recruitment related to chip R&D in AI and video codec, mainly cooperating with its gaming and online video businesses. In addition, Tencent has also invested in chip companies, such as Shanghai-based startup Enflame Technology, which designs deep learning chips for cloud data centers and AI acceleration products.
Chaillan said his departure from the U.S. Air Force was to protest the slow progress of the U.S. military’s technological transformation. He said he did not want to watch China surpass the United States.
He said that Beijing is taking the lead in artificial intelligence, machine learning, and network technology and is moving towards global dominance. In an interview with The Epoch Times, Chaillan stated that the U.S. artificial intelligence is still ahead of China in general but rapidly losing its edge.
According to Chaillan, the Pentagon was not doing enough to make contractors comfortable with working with the U.S. military partially due to a lack of transparency, resulting in big private companies such as Google abandoning government contracts and development opportunities. Beijing, in contrast, can mandate any company inside its borders to develop technology in any direction it chooses, thus leading to much more rapid development.
In addition, Chaillan is strongly critical of the bureaucracy of the Pentagon and plans to testify to Congress in the future about the threat the CCP poses to America’s superiority.
Command: Modern Operations is a war simulation video game using AI, enabling players to simulate every military engagement from post-World War II to the present day and beyond. Although it can simulate tactical attack scenarios, strategic scale operations are also possible.
“The use of artificial intelligence in wargames is the future trend,” Xie suggested that both the U.S. and Chinese military are trying out AI in war simulation, but there is still a long way to go.
Big data is the key to AI’s research and development; the more relevant data, the better the AI is trained.
“The biggest advantage of the U.S. military is that they collect a large amount of data directly from the battlefield and actual combat training every day for AI training,” Xie said. “The AI trained in this way is more in line with the needs of the real battlefield.” He added that Beijing’s reliance on foreign software stems from its lack of battlefield experience and data.
Data is critical to AI learning. The more data available, the better the AI can learn. And China has one of the largest data sets in the world, though it’s not necessarily for military use.
In addition to strategic AI applications, the Chinese military is also catching up in tactical applications such as unmanned shooting systems, modern robot fighters, and airspace simulators. Although the U.S. military started its R&D 20 years ago, the CCP is catching up at full speed with the rapid development of artificial intelligence and machine learning systems in recent years.
Chinese Lt. Gen. Liu Guozhi believes that AI will accelerate the process of military transformation and bring fundamental changes to troop allocation, combat styles, equipment systems, and combat effectiveness, even triggering a profound military revolution.
According to Liu, the CCP’s “information revolution” will advance in three stages: digitization, networking, and intelligence. Presently, the CCP military has successfully introduced information technology into its internet platforms and systems. At the same time, it is gradually advancing the integration of command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities, seeking to increase its warfare capability further.
“Thirty years after the disintegration of the Soviet Union, people suddenly discovered that the Chinese Communist Party had replaced the Soviet Union as a new threat to Western society. In many areas, the CCP has more global control than the Soviet Union back then.
“During these three decades, the CCP took advantage of the negligence of the free world. Through unfair trade and intellectual property theft, it turned China into the world’s second-largest economy and a manufacturing superpower. The authoritarian regime monopolizes social resources to rapidly develop AI technology seeking to surpass the United States in the new technological era.
“If the CCP wins the AI race, the destiny of mankind will face a huge turning point. AI technology can give birth to a new generation of intelligent weapons, such as cyber weapons, which may be more threatening than nuclear weapons. These technologies can control and destroy a country’s infrastructure and weapon systems instantly. This will be the mode of future warfare, completed by touching a few buttons on the computer. This is no longer a scene from a science fiction movie but real threats facing mankind,” he said.