At that time, China’s technology lagged behind the United States’. It was unthinkable then that China would one day become a tech competitor. After three decades of open trade, the United States is waking up to a world in which China seems to be within arm’s length of replacing it as the world’s top tech provider.
Extraordinary speed requires an extraordinary approach. To achieve Xi’s growth goal, the Chinese regime has developed a variety of tactics to access the crown jewels of U.S. technology. Some of these tactics are nefarious or illegal, but some are actually legal, or fall in less regulated gray areas. They could be operated in the United States, in China, or virtually.
Of course, physical and cyber espionage by China has been a classic method that many are well aware of. It has grown only more rampant today: about 80 percent of all federal economic espionage prosecutions in recent years were allegedly related to benefiting the Chinese regime, and about 60 percent of all trade secret theft cases have had a nexus to China.
But the damage of espionage is nothing compared to the legal tactics. U.S. companies that try to enter China often find themselves being forced to hand over the complete know-how.
The Chinese JV partners often share the technologies acquired from U.S. firms with other Chinese companies in the industry. So such tech transfers benefit all Chinese companies in that industry.
There are numerous other projects in China at the central and local government levels. It is impossible to know how many U.S. talents have been acquired through these programs.
The short-term gains can be blinding, such as a billion-dollar contract or a large sum of research funds. But it is important for Americans to understand that the Chinese regime launched an undeclared war against the United States decades ago.
With the help of U.S. technologies, the Chinese Communist Party has gained more power than ever, and is getting more aggressive each year. Xi Jinping’s “China Dream” is not about freedom, humanity, and peace—it’s a dictator’s dream to rule the world.