“The fact is, the Chinese Communist Party is really sending a lot of people to our universities and to our most innovative companies,” said Nicolas Chaillan, the former chief software officer for the U.S. Air Force and Space Force. “And there is a very big risk of exfiltration of data from within.”
“Insider threat is probably the most underestimated threat of all these top organizations on the commercial side,” he added.
Chaillan said that a key issue in mitigating insider threat in the future would be striking a balance between an appropriate amount of caution regarding those with ties to the Chinese regime, while still maintaining America’s democratic values.
“It’s a real issue, and there’s not many solutions,” Chaillan said. “You don’t want to start saying ‘we’re not going to allow these people to contribute to society.’ We need those talents.”
“If they’re willing to come and make a difference, they can actually be great assets to by providing more insights about their countries,” Chaillan said. “So, I think the solution would have to deal with how do we help them bring their families and try to remove these dependencies or these kind of side effects and risks that could be spreading rapidly. You have to be proactive.”
“China is taking off, leading the pace, by mandating their companies to partner with them,” Chaillan said. “That’s been a tremendous challenge and, at some point, I had no choice but to raise the alarm because we are seeing that we’re losing this battle.”
“China is leading right now, they’re already leading in many of those fields because of the adoption of the technology from their companies. That’s the difference.”
Chaillan explained that a lack of transparency between the Pentagon and the private technology sector was driving down the industry’s desire to work with government, and that an inability to leverage private sector tech was hamstringing U.S. efforts to compete with China.
“We have to pay attention to who is working for some of these companies,” Chaillan said.
“But what’s very important is we have to stop funding reports. We have to ask Congress to stop continuously going back to DoD and asking the department to invest more money writing reports.”
“We need actions. We need outcomes. We need tangible value to the warfighter.”
“I don’t believe that we have lost,” Chaillan said. “What I said is that if we don’t act now, and don’t wake up right away, and not in five to 10 years from now like some of the Pentagon reports are saying, but if we don’t take a stand now and take action, we have no fighting chance in succeeding 10 to 15 years from now.”
“The velocity of adoption of AI compounds over time so, effectively, you’re going to be at a situation at some point where you pass the point of no return. You will not be able to catch up.”
Accordingly, Chaillan said that the DoD must do more to encourage innovative thinking and risk-taking among its ranks, as well as to increase transparency with its private-sector contractors.
“Well, you know, I think that the issue is there is no reward for taking risks,” Chaillan said. “On the commercial side, if you do good you get bonuses, you get credit, right? In the government, it’s actually safer not to take [risks], because you have more chance of rising up if you don’t make noise, even if you end up having a large program that fails.”
“There’s no one held accountable when something goes wrong,” Chaillan added. “Effectively, when something is going to go wrong, it’s going to be most likely classified, and we can’t talk about it.”
“[Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin] was very clear about our concerns about China’s desires to advance in this field and he’s focused and we still remain focused on advancing AI capabilities in a responsible way, in close partnership with industry and academia and building a digitally talented and capable workforce here for the Department,” Kirby said.