“There is a group of conspirators who have worked and still work in the heart of the church” for the interests of the globalist elite, Archbishop Carlo Maria Vigano told “War Room.” He called this group the deep church and explained that their goal is to demolish the papacy and secure power.
Vigano believes that the agreement on the appointment of bishops in China between the Vatican and the Chinese regime that, in his words, “deprived Chinese Catholics of the indefectible defense that the Papacy had always been for them,” is an act of complicity of the deep church with the Chinese communist regime allied to the global deep state.
“Up until the papacy of Benedict XVI, the papacy had not made any agreements with the Beijing dictatorship, and the Roman Pontiff retained the exclusive right to appoint bishops and govern dioceses,” the archbishop continued.
“The dictatorship of the Chinese Communist Party [CCP] is allied to the global deep state on the one hand so that together they can attain the goals that they have in common.” On the other hand, the deep state’s plans for the Great Reset are an opportunity for the CCP to increase the economic power of China in the world, beginning with the invasion of national markets, Vigano said.
“China is pursuing a domestic plan to restore the Maoist tyranny, which requires the cancellation of religions (primarily the Catholic religion), replacing them with a religion of the state which definitely has many elements in common with the universal religion desired by globalist ideology,” Vigano continued.
“We find ourselves faced with an infamous betrayal of the mission of the church of Christ, carried out by her highest leaders in open conflict with those members of the Chinese Catholic underground hierarchy who have remained faithful to our lord and to his church,” Vigano said.
Vigano praised Cardinal Joseph Zen, the bishop emeritus of Hong Kong, who advocated against the Vatican-China deal calling the cardinal “an eminent confessor of the faith.”
The meeting in Davos is “the most elitist gathering of the world’s financial business and political and cultural community that exists,” he said.
In his speech, Xi touted the globalization projects and China’s role as the railhead of them, seeing other countries as “all kinds of tributary states” and telling the audience the projects will allow them “to make more money than ever,” Bannon said.
However Xi foresaw one problem which could hamper those projects: populist nationalism, Bannon said. “All the unwashed masses who are not trained or not elites like [the audience] want to have a say,” Bannon said, explaining Xi’s reasoning.
Every person participating in the annual WEF meeting in Davos knows all about the concentration camps for Uyghurs, persecution of house Christians, forced organ harvesting, the suppression of the underground Catholic church, the suppression and the torture of the Falun Gong, and the democracy movement, and the situation in Hong Kong—they have perfect information on everything and they don’t care, he said.
The Chinese business model is based on the slave labor of the people of China, who are underpaid and forced to work incredible hours in factories, Bannon said.
“The slave labor of China goes throughout the world as export and allows the world’s workers whether they’re in India, or Western Europe or the United States to never get pay raises. This was the miracle of Donald Trump to actually get blue-collar workers to pay raises,” Bannon said.
These two speeches represent “two diametrically opposed ways that the world should be organized. One is based upon hundreds of years of freedom as imperfect as it’s been, right, versus a totalitarian,” Bannon said.
“The changes we have already seen in response to COVID-19 prove that a reset of our economic and social foundations is possible,” Schwab said.
It will also pose challenges to people’s privacy because the tracking and sharing of information about people is a crucial part of the new connectivity, Schwab wrote. “The revolutions occurring in biotechnology and Artificial Intelligence (AI) ... will compel us to redefine our moral and ethical boundaries,” Schwab added.
The Great Reset architects use the mainstream media as an indispensable ally to make people believe “that the radical changes they want to impose have been made necessary by a pandemic, by climate change, and by technological progress,” Vigano said.
Schwab wrote, “We must build entirely new foundations for our economic and social systems,” to address crises caused by the pandemic, climate change, and social crisis.