“A critical part of why bilateral and multilateral agreements and treaties are so important is the concept of ‘interoperability,’” Mills said.
Interoperability—the ability of nations to jointly fight as a single force—would be particularly vital after Australia completes its new fleet of nuclear submarines, he said.
At that stage, all three AUKUS nations will effectively be fielding different models of the same torpedo technology, and improved interoperability between their systems will allow for much more seamless integration of their respective fighting forces.
“The interoperability of platforms and weapons systems are very important and a huge force multiplier,” Mills said. “Which is intimidating to potential adversaries like China because they don’t have any agreements like that.”
“Interoperability and collaboration via AUKUS reaffirms the long-term relationship between the U.S., UK, and Australia as they venture toward the next stage of alliance development and evolution,” Kessler wrote.
“Sharing this military technology not only illustrates a level of trust and commitment to working and operating together, but also provides the United States with partners that are invested in the same goals and interests in promoting regional stability and security,” he added.
But, for now, the Western allies maintain a competitive advantage in high-tech fields that Kessler believed they would continue to invest in.
“Sharing AI and quantum computing technologies with these close allies enables both reliable and capable partners to not only share the burden at every level of the relationship, but also helps the U.S. not bear the responsibility alone while still preserving a competitive advantage.”
“[AUKUS] is a huge step,” Mills said. “It’s a formidable force for China to overcome. It’s almost unassailable and the Chinese know that.”
“I would like to see a greater inclusiveness,” he added. “I would like to see India and Japan. Canada would be good.”
“We have longstanding agreements within Five Eyes that really give us an incredible force multiplier because of our ability to share and collaborate on cyber and cyber security,” Mills said.
“The Five Eyes has a strong heritage, and this has now been applied in a more targeted, precise way to deal with deterrence and containment against China.”
Kessler agreed that AUKUS and its focus on developing shared platforms and boosting interoperability was useful in deterring China from taking overt action against the allies, but that the CCP could adapt by doubling down on information operations and other efforts designed to sow discord within or cast doubts on AUKUS in the greater international community.
“At this stage, the Chinese may just continue to maintain their practices of applying soft power and subversive tactics to try to develop wedges between allies and partners, as well as creating weaknesses, vulnerabilities, and finding ways to generate compromised and complicit actors,” Kessler said.