The world’s largest video surveillance company Hikvision is currently listed as a threat to U.S. national security. The company’s newly released annual report shows that a Chinese military industrial group is its controller.
Hikvision has “been found to pose an unacceptable risk to U.S. national security or the security and safety of U.S. persons,” the Federal Communication Commission’s Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau said in a statement on March 12. The FCC pointed out that Hikvision collects details of Americans’ lives, such as work, school, and health care.
With the business expanding, Hikvision’s equipment surveils not only Chinese people, but also those who live in free countries.
The company’s 2020 annual report stated, “Hikvision has established 19 regional function centers overseas, with 66 branches under it ... providing services to 155 countries and regions.”
Chen Zongnian, chairman of Hikvision and representative of the 52nd Institute of CETC, is also a CCP representative within Hikvision, according to the company. Qu Liyang, director of Hikvision’s innovation division, is also a CCP representative in the company. And the company operates under the monitoring of a party committee.
Li said that PLA soldiers shot missiles based on their experiences and those learned from others, which weren’t accurate and caused some missiles to miss the targets during the drills.
Li then suggested developing a new system to improve the accuracy of missiles by using surveillance technology.
“[We should] use the surveillance cameras to capture the moment when the missile reaches the target or misses the target, and collect the wind speed as well as the temperature and air humidity. Then we can calculate whether the angle of incidence is correct and in which angle the missile has the strongest force of penetration/lethality,” Li wrote.
Li said the surveillance system also needs to collect data on the land where the soldiers shoot the missile and where the target is, the radius of the explosion, and whether a missile is dumped.
“The surveillance system should capture the details of the moment when the missile/rocket/cannonball hit the target, and record the explosion. Then with professional ballistic trajectory analysis software, we can have accurate data of the angle of incidence [and all the other data],” Li said.
He then talked briefly about the surveillance system that Hikvision would supply. “We need to use high-speed cameras, which can capture at least 200 to 500 frames per second. With a lot of the footage, we need to build a local memory server and power supply.”