“It’s an indication that the U.S. is taking the level of seriousness to the next level and showing that it realizes it needs to more fully utilize its established set of alliances that have been around for decades,” he said in an email.
“It shows that the UK and Australia are also more committed to addressing the regional security concerns that are escalating in the Indo-Pacific.”
Anders Corr, principal at advisory firm Corr Analytics, told The Epoch Times that AUKUS is particularly important insofar as it offers a strategic military capability and adds a specific mission set to nations whose other security agreements, such as the Five Eyes intelligence alliance, were otherwise limited to intelligence sharing or non-mission-specific drills.
“AUKUS is important because it creates a stronger core to the Five Eyes alliance,” Corr, who is also an Epoch Times contributor, said in an email, referring to the grouping of the United States, Britain, Australia, Canada, and New Zealand.
“The Australians having nuclear submarine technology is designed to assist with the U.S. and British efforts, as diesel has major limitations and uses,” Kessler said. “This is just one example where interoperable forces can help ensure security in the Indo-Pacific.”
Another key component of developing such interoperability, Corr says, is the capability of sharing specific weapons systems in the future, should the nations deem such action necessary.
“Interoperability may be critical to the strategic power of AUKUS,” he said. “For example, if the United States or Britain decides to provide nuclear weapons that fit the Tomahawk cruise missiles that will arm Australia’s new nuclear submarines.”
While the United States and its allies seek to build joint forces that can work together toward one end, the CCP generally seeks merely to control its partners for the purposes of pursuing its own aims, and generally refrains from building any interoperational capacity, according to experts.
It’s a phenomenon that Corr believes stems from the very different forms of governance between the democratic West and communist China.
“AUKUS is a win for the ability of democracies, which by nature share power, to ally with each other,” Corr said. “Dictatorships, which are by nature power-hungry, do not have that advantage.”
Kessler also believes the agreement presents real progress in the allies’ ability to expand upon traditional alliance structures and leverage resources toward a common goal in a novel way.
The Quad is a forum among Australia, India, Japan, and the United States that’s designed to promote a free and open Indo–Pacific and rules-based maritime order.
“It’s possible that AUKUS can provide a framework for formalizing other non-binding partnerships like the Quad,” Kessler said. “However, it will depend on how the two find a way to coexist and help each other out in ways that serve specific purposes and goals.”
Likewise, Corr said that the strength of AUKUS largely is in its dedication to solving a specific problem, and that other security agreements ought to focus on developing specific solutions to particular problems as well.
“AUKUS shows what an alliance can do when it has a specific mission, for example, the provision of nuclear submarines to Australia,” Corr said. “The Quad has a less specific, and relatively non-explicit mission, and so has been less effective to this point.
“As the danger from Beijing increases, the Quad will be forced to step in with more specific missions.”
For now, Kessler says the success of AUKUS will depend upon the ability of its leaders to acknowledge that the threat from Beijing is reaching its zenith, and to act accordingly.