A notable example of this strategy in practice is the reported test of a Chinese hypersonic weapon in July, which could effectively allow the Chinese military to focus on developing next-generation weapons technologies without having to invest in advancing their older, more traditional missile systems.
“The CCP leadership have made claims that they seek to have self-reliance in technology and that it is time to accelerate the modernization of all aspects in their military capabilities to exhibit what they consider to be a world-class military,” said Sam Kessler, a geopolitical adviser at North Star Support Group, a multinational risk management firm.
Xi’s comments reflected China’s current lack of a domestic manufacturing and supply base required to sustain these many efforts, Kessler said.
“In their circumstance, it will be essential for the CCP to unify and consolidate manufacturing capabilities regarding their weapons production processes,” he said.
“Developing a domestic manufacturing base and supply chain for tech like semiconductors is a complicated process for them to perfect.”
But China’s semiconductor industry is not as developed as that of the United States and its allies, Kessler said. For this reason, the Chinese regime has taken to attempts to source such technologies from Western companies, often using quasi-legal means to conceal the relationship between its military and the private Chinese companies that import them.
Recognizing the growing global pushback against Beijing’s tech ambitions, the CCP is “very interested” in developing home-grown manufacturing capabilities, according to Kessler.
“I don’t know if it’s quite a Sputnik moment,” Milley said, “but I think it’s very close to that. It has all of our attention.”
The Soviet Union’s launch of Sputnik, the first artificial satellite to orbit the earth, caused mass anxiety and fear that the United States was falling behind its Cold War foe in technological advancement.
The CCP’s efforts to acquire the knowledge and technologies required to expand their strategic advantage, and now its efforts to produce those technologies domestically, could lead to a new arms race, according to Kessler. Much as Sputnik led to the “space race” that saw the creation of NASA, China’s efforts to leapfrog U.S. military hegemony could trigger profound strides in global weapons development.
“That’s a big issue that was being brought up by leaders and thinkers in the U.S. intelligence community circa the 2008-2009 period,” Kessler said. “They assessed that greater global business, financial, and technological competition would lead to a new arms race and a new period of great power competition.”