A Chinese man used his ex-girlfriend’s phone while she was asleep and bypassed facial recognition by lifting up her eyelids, successfully stealing money from her Alipay account.
The identity theft case has stunned Chinese people and topped search charts of Weibo, China’s Twitter, on Dec. 12 with 490 million views.
When Huang arrived at Dong’s home in the afternoon, he found Dong ill. Huang immediately took the initiative to be attentive to Dong’s needs, cooking for her and helping with her medicine. After Dong was sound asleep, Huang used Dong’s fingerprints to unlock her Huawei phone. He then lifted her upper eyelids for facial recognition to gain access to her Alipay app, an online payment app developed by Alibaba Group.
Huang processed several transactions from Dong’s Alipay and bank card, totaling $154,000 yuan ($24,000), and then left. With the stolen money, Huang paid off his gambling debts and continued gambling with the remaining money, according to the verdict of a court in Nanning city.
Upon waking up, Dong reported the theft to the local police. In April, Huang was caught. The court recently sentenced Huang to three years and six months in prison and fined him 20,000 yuan ($3,140).
The identity theft case raises questions on the facial recognition technology of Chinese domestic smartphones.
The research team said that the ease of unlocking was actually only the first step, they found through testing that many applications on the phone can pass through authentication by countering a sample attack. They were even able to impersonate owners to open a bank account online.
“The early-stage AI technology generates videos in which the characters often do not blink their eyes ... But with the continuous evolution of deep forgery technology, these identification methods are no longer effective.” Zhang said.
Abuse of the immature AI technology will result in personal information being easily manipulated, bringing about privacy leaks and identity crises, and also giving rise to new types of black businesses that are more secretive and difficult to detect, such as pornography and financial fraud, Zhang added.
State-owned Xinhua media reported on April 7 that facial recognition has become over-solicited biometric information for many apps and applets. Some small commercial companies even offer to sell facial data for as little as 0.5 yuan.
Huawei phones have been banned from carrying critical software and licenses from Google since a U.S. export restriction announced by the Commerce Department on Aug. 17, 2020. Thirty-eight Huawei subsidiaries around the world are on the “entity list” of U.S. export restrictions to prevent Huawei from obtaining U.S. technology and related products.