Chinese authorities have funded projects that are aimed at obtaining foreign advanced technologies through partnerships with international research institutions, a series of leaked government documents recently obtained by The Epoch Times reveals.
Public records show that China’s Ministry of Science and Technology is behind the efforts.
To achieve that goal, the document specified that the organization would expand cooperation channels with at least 50 international organizations; set up a minimum of four international scientific and technological cooperation activities; maintain at least 50 foreign technology projects; obtain at least five cooperation intention agreements; and target 60 to 80 foreign technical experts for recruitment.
The report laid out a 1 million yuan (about $153,000) budget for the association to recruit talent from overseas and fund the projects they would set up in Hebei. It also projected a profit of 10 million yuan (about $1.53 million) that could be achieved by “transferring” foreign advanced technology to Chinese companies in Hebei.
The purpose of transferring foreign technology was mentioned in another report that was issued at the same time, titled “Plan for the Use of Special Subsidy Funds for the Construction of Hebei International Science and Technology Cooperation Base.” The foreign technology would upgrade Hebei’s technology, improve products, and boost international competitiveness, the report said.
The initiative is a lucrative scheme and a blatant plan to steal advanced technology and intellectual property from other countries to benefit the Chinese regime, U.S.-based China affairs commentator Li Linyi told The Epoch Times.
Some of the instructions include establishing an international technology transfer center website; “vigorously introducing” international high-tech talents, high-level management teams and advanced technology resources; “all-around” strengthening of international cooperation and technology transfer; and “improving various working systems in the international technology transfer work.”
The Hebei University of Engineering, for example, has set up partnerships with international schools to develop high-end scientific and technological projects, as outlined in its report “Hebei International Joint Center Base Defense,” issued on Nov. 21, 2020.
Under the “Cooperative Units and Research Teams” section of the document, the university partnered with Le Mans Université and Université Paris-Saclay in France, University College London in England, and Nanyang Technological University in Singapore.