And if you think that sounds confusing, Kwik knows that, too.
Which is why, when Kwik meets with entrepreneurs, he likes starting with metaphors and stories. Here’s a quick metaphor he often tells his clients. Then a quick story.
The metaphor: A little boy watches a caterpillar build its cocoon. He waits and waits for it to emerge transformed, but eventually he gets impatient and cuts the cocoon open himself to see the butterfly. Instead, he’s horrified to find a swollen, mangled bug. He runs to his mother, who explains, “What happens in the cocoon isn’t pretty, but it is also necessary, and it cannot be interrupted.”
What do we learn from these tales?
What is the fundamental thing, then? What’s the foundation to build upon — the thing to know first, which more knowledge can be built upon, and that we need now more than ever as we emerge from a pandemic and into…whatever comes next?
“The number one skill set,” Kwik says, “is to learn how to learn.”
He had to teach this to himself. Because at first, Kwik didn’t know how to learn. He was just, as one of his grade-school teachers called him, “the boy with the broken brain.”
Kwik said yes. The trip would change his life.
Before dinner one night, the friend’s father invited Kwik for a walk around their property. “How’s school?” the father asked, and Kwik broke down crying. Then the father asked, “Jim, why are you in school? What do you want to be?”
Kwik didn’t know how to answer; nobody had asked him that before. The father grabbed a journal, tore out a few sheets of paper, and asked Kwik to write down his goals and dreams. Kwik did, and then started to fold up the paper and put it in his pocket—but the father grabbed the paper and started reading. “I’m freaking out,” Kwik recalls, “because I’ve never shared this with anyone.” The list contained the normal dreams of an 18-year-old: finding success, making his parents proud. Then the father held up two index fingers, about a foot apart, and said, “You’re this close to achieving everything on that list.”
“I don’t know what it was,” Kwik says, “but something about hearing your deepest desires in somebody else’s voice, incanted into the universe, just messed with my mind and my spirit.” Kwik agreed: He’d read a book a week.
But he didn’t know how. Back at school, he pushed himself to do it — barely sleeping, barely eating. He withered down to 117 pounds, and one morning, at 2 a.m., he fell down a flight of stairs at the school library and smashed his head. He woke up in a hospital, malnourished and dehydrated, thinking he’d died. Then a nurse entered with a mug that had Albert Einstein’s face on it. Kwik took it as a sign—he’d once done a book report on Einstein in high school, but he was so insecure that he threw it out rather than hand it to his teacher. Now Einstein stared at him, along with a quote printed on the mug: “We cannot solve our problems with the same level of thinking that created them.”
Something clicked for Kwik. He understood his problem.
That’s what he set about doing. Once he’d figured it out, he began tutoring other students to do the same. Then he began tutoring those students’ parents, who passed him along to their friends and colleagues, and soon Kwik was training the greatest minds in the world.
Now he is in demand by major companies, entrepreneurs, athletes, and entertainers, and he travels the globe speaking to crowds of thousands. Kwik says he is torn about this success. “I didn’t want to be famous. I don’t want to be known for this work,” he says. “I’m very introverted and very shy.” He doesn’t hide this, either. In conversation, he speaks in a serious, subdued tone, looking off to the side every so often as if needing to recharge. But he feels compelled to keep teaching, reaching the maximum number of people he can, because he knows how transformative it is to learn how to learn.
“Shame on me,” he says, “if somebody is struggling and suffering the way I did for so long, and I don’t help that person.
Does he hear this from billionaire CEOs at top-tier companies, too? “Oh, goodness!” Kwik replies. “I can’t tell you how many high-­profile individuals struggle with self-esteem issues.” The way he sees it, all behavior is driven by beliefs — and if someone believes they cannot do something, then they won’t be able to, no matter their level of accomplishment. “Your brain is a supercomputer, and an entrepreneur’s self-talk is the program that will run,” he says.
To create a winning mindset, then, people can’t just focus on what they want to do. They have to identify their limiting beliefs and then, he says, systematically “un-limit” them.
That’s mindset, in brief: Un-limit your beliefs, and actively turn knowledge into power. Remember earlier, when Kwik said that you need the right mindset before you can truly make use of good methods? Well, are we there yet? No. Because if you combine a great mindset with powerful methods, you don’t actually have learning. Instead, what you have is ideation.
“A lot of entrepreneurs suffer from ideation,” he says. “They believe everything is possible and they have all these great ideas, but they’re not doing anything because they’re not motivated.”
That’s the final piece of the puzzle. If you want to learn how to learn, you must combine mindset, methods, and finally, motivation. (Kwik also loves alliteration.)
“The evidence that somebody is motivated — an entrepreneur or their team or customers — is that they consistently take action,” Kwik says. “I think 90 percent of entrepreneurs would say, ‘Yes, I have an issue staying motivated to consistently do the things I don’t want to do.’ ”
Kwik has come up with a formula to fix this, which he says goes like this: P x E x S3.
Combine all this together and you’ve built true, action-oriented motivation. Now you’re ready to really learn — to absorb the methods you find in books and podcasts (and in this magazine!), and to expand your potential. Because above all, as Kwik transformed himself from a stunted learner into a world-renowned brain coach, he is convinced of this: We contain more potential than we know.