But despite pushback from fellow scientists, her former employer, and even her now-estranged husband—who she said tried to poison her—COVID-19 whistleblower Dr. Yan Li-meng says it was “very easy” for her to risk her life and career to speak up about her observations of the initial outbreak.
On why she’s considered such a threat to a communist regime that governs more than 1.4 billion people, Yan claimed, “The reason is very clear, because the things I’m telling the world actually reveal the top confidential plans of the Chinese government. They’ve spent over 20 years working on the novel bioweapons, including using coronavirus.”
The CCP has already silenced other whistleblowers who might have had valuable knowledge and insight into the coronavirus outbreak.
With the nature of Yan’s claims being difficult to verify, she knows she is putting her reputation on the line by sharing her views on the record so that the public can judge for themselves regarding what really happened in Wuhan.
Chinese officials had no “foreknowledge of the virus” before the initial outbreak of COVID-19 emerged, the report said, which remains inconclusive regarding the origins of the CCP virus, while pointing to either a natural origin or a laboratory accident as the most likely scenarios for the emergence of SARS-CoV-2.
There is no evidence to date suggesting that the virus was intentionally released, contrary to Yan’s claims.
The document, authored by 18 of the Chinese military’s and academia’s top people, also outlined a claim by Chinese military scientists that the SARS-CoV-1 virus, which caused many deaths in 2003, was developed by “terrorists” who released the man-made bioweapon on China.
As the pandemic unfolded in January 2020, Yan said she “realized it was urgent at that time” to speak up.
She claims to have learned that Wuhan already knew of human-to-human transmission of a SARS-like virus on Dec. 31, 2019. Then, as January rolled in, Yan said she watched the CCP and WHO lie to the world about what they already knew about the transmission of the virus—which would later be proven a lie as the first cracks began to emerge—showing that the CCP was covering up the extent of the disease outbreak.
Yan added that at this stage, the CCP had already silenced or disappeared the whistleblower doctors—like Dr. Li Wenliang—in mainland China who were trying to warn the world about the virus. By Jan. 17, no more updates were coming out of Wuhan.
Yan then thought, “If I don’t tell the world, they will keep covering [it] up and there will be [a] bigger outbreak and even a pandemic all over the world.”
“It delayed the outbreak and reduced the damage in some way,” Yan told Crossroads of her efforts, as the CCP was “forced to admit the outbreak in Wuhan within four hours” of her comments.
“They were forced to admit for the first time to the world that human-to-human transmission exists within 24 hours of my revelation,” she added.
She said that she was inspired to speak up after witnessing the Hong Kong pro-democracy protests.
“I was in Hong Kong, and when I saw it happen in Hong Kong ... I realized how evil the CCP can be. They want to grab the freedom, democracy, human rights—all these basic things—from poor people. And once people start to fight, they will just disappear them or kill them,” she lamented of her country.
She said that one of the protest scenes that really struck her was where many of Hong Kong’s seniors, who would have been over 70 or 80, stood on the front line to stop the army from harming the protesters. Most of the protesters were young people.
“They told the journalists, when we were young, 50 years ago, we didn’t realize the CCP is so evil, so we didn’t stop it,” Yan said. “And now we realize that they are evil and we didn’t do it when we were young, so we want to do it at this moment to help our next generations. This is the only thing we can do to stop them.