The American promise, which includes representative democracy, liberty, equality, and other rights found in the Constitution, is under threat—most seriously by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).
The CCP controls the world’s largest economy by gross domestic product (GDP) when considering the purchasing power that China’s GDP buys. The CCP controls a military twice the size of the U.S. military by number of troops and is by certain measures, including supercomputing, artificial intelligence, and hypersonic missiles, more advanced than the United States in terms of military technology.
Beijing chooses America’s most powerful economic interests and offers them privileged and highly lucrative access to Chinese markets, which consist of 1.4 billion people and a nominal GDP of $14.72 trillion in 2020. These companies include America’s biggest corporate names, including Apple, Boeing, Goldman Sachs, and J.P. Morgan.
Because these corporations make so much money in China, and because their China revenue could be cut off at any minute by the CCP, they are incentivized to comply with CCP wishes. They know that non-compliance could zero-out their China revenues, destroy their profitability, and tank their stock price. At times, the CCP seeks to use its influence in these big corporations to get board seats for CCP members. Sometimes they have no need for this, when existing board members, including U.S. citizens, know the rules of the game: Deliver for the CCP, or lose your company’s profitability and your leadership position in the process.
The CCP typically infiltrates political elites by delivering revenues through campaign donations, consulting agreements, or as direct bribes. These revenues are almost always delivered by middlemen, whether they be large corporations that manufacture in China, billionaires whose enterprises do extensive business in China, or nonprofit organizations with Chinese revenue streams.
U.S. billionaires linked to business in China, including Stephen Schwarzman, Larry Fink, and Michael Bloomberg, have been some of the most effective conduits of Chinese influence at elite political levels in both parties. But the CCP also attempts to access politicians through their family members, for example, business with both the Trump and Biden families.
First, economic decoupling from China will weaken Beijing’s economic power through fewer trade and investment opportunities. It also cuts off the conduits upon which Beijing relies for political, economic, and ideological influence.
If Apple and Boeing aren’t manufacturing planes and iPhones in China, and not selling to China, then Beijing can’t use market access to compel these U.S. companies to influence U.S. politics in a manner that paralyzes our military and economic defenses against the CCP. Sure, these companies initially make less money selling to China, but they can divert their sales and manufacturing to U.S. communities and allies, strengthening the United States and its allies in the process. More manufacturing jobs in the United States means higher wages, more government revenues, a deeper and more diversified industrial ecosystem, and ultimately a militarily and economically stronger United States, relative to China, than previously.
Second, firewalling politics from the influence of money makes it impossible for Beijing to use the many corporate conduits of influence, including U.S. corporations, to paralyze U.S. defenses against the CCP. This would mean new laws, and strengthened laws, to end the revolving door between high government positions and the lobbying, think tank, and corporate job positions that provide outsized incomes in a quid pro quo for political influence when a candidate is in office. It would mean laws against China-linked corporations funding think tanks and universities that are then economically incentivized to support soft-on-China analysis and advocacy.
Third, firewalling the media from China-linked funding—especially, for example, direct Chinese state media advertising—would remove a means of influence over editorial and publisher decision making. The take-home profits of shareholders in a media company are directly linked to advertising, and if that advertising is from CCP organizations such as China’s state media, then a conduit is opened to influence publishers and editorial decisions, not to mention the advertising itself, which is often in the form of large inserts geared to appear as if they are legitimate news reporting when, in fact, they are CCP propaganda.
The key to ending CCP infiltration of the United States, and of any country, is to cut off the means that Beijing uses for such infiltration: money. America’s promise is in its ideas of liberty, freedom, equality, and property, all of which are interrelated—and which handily beat Beijing’s own communist ideology that is based on control of the many by the few.