Nearly 70 lawmakers from the Group of Seven (G7) nations have signed a joint letter calling on their leaders to join together in taking a tough stance on China during the upcoming June summit.
“It is essential that all G7 democracies work together to hold the Chinese Communist Party accountable to the freedoms which China has internationally agreed to and that has led the world since the conclusion of the Second World War,” Gonzalez added.
“China’s selective approach to international law and its aggressive foreign policy in the Indo-Pacific as well as increasingly on a global scale, are the main challenges to the international order,” Röttgen said, according to the statement.
He added: “In order to achieve a joint China strategy of the Free World, we all have to compromise, knowing that the protection of the freedoms which the international system has at its core, is worth it.”
In the letter, lawmakers called on G7 leaders to “unite around a plan of action that addresses internal and external PRC [People’s Republic of China] behavior which we consider contradictory to international standards.”
The letter identified several issues on which G7 nations should stand united against communist China, including technology standards, human rights, tensions in the Indo-Pacific region, and the COVID-19 pandemic.
“[T]he PRC has weakened international governance,” the letter said, pointing to how China “undermined” the World Health Organization (WHO) and “held back important information in the initial stages of the pandemic.”
“To prepare and prevent future outbreaks, we believe that an independent investigation into the origins and spread of the virus is necessary,” the letter states.
Lawmakers also pointed to China’s oppression against Uyghurs and other minority groups in China’s far-western Xinjiang region, where an estimated one million Uyghurs are currently detained in internment camps.
“The PRC’s egregious violations of human rights demand a collective response by the G7 countries to hold the PRC accountable for its treatment of ethnic and religious minorities,” the letter added.
It also highlighted that democratic countries should not be dependent on China for emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence and next-generation wireless communications like 5G.