Credit card fraud ranked as the second most common form of identity theft in 2020, according to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), trailing very close behind government/benefits fraud. The agency fielded 393,207 reports last year, up 45 percent from 271,823 in 2019, from consumers whose credit card accounts were compromised or who had new lines of credit opened in their name.
While statistics like these may fuel consumer fear of credit card fraud, cardholders can take comfort in the fact that the major credit card networks—Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover—offer $0 liability protection. That means you won’t be on the hook for purchases you didn’t make if you’re a victim of credit card fraud.
Consumers can also be assured their banks or credit card issuers are improving security measures as well. Since banks and credit card issuers absorb much of the financial liability of credit card fraud, they have a vested interest in preventing fraud before it happens. Consequently, they’re beefing up their security networks to combat credit card fraud head-on.
No matter which network your card relies on, you can be reasonably assured that it’s safe, with loads of security built-in. Not to mention, your card issuer will likely shore up any security gaps through their own fraud prevention measures.
There are four major credit card networks: Visa, Mastercard, American Express and Discover. Visa and Mastercard don’t issue credit cards directly to consumers. Instead, they work with banks, credit unions and other financial institutions that distribute the cards to consumers. When you pay your credit card bill, you pay your card issuer, like Chase or Bank of America, not Visa or Mastercard.
Here is a small sampling of the many risk attributes Visa Advanced Authorization seeks to identify in roughly a millisecond:
—Type of transaction: Mobile, online, contactless, chip or magnetic stripe
—Geo-location: Is your phone pinging in one location while your account is being used for a transaction in another area?
—Spending history: Is the transaction in line with the cardholders spending patterns?
—Unusual circumstances: Is a transaction occurring at an odd time of day for a significant amount of money?
After analyzing all available data, the system produces a risk score that indicates the likely probability of fraud—a risk score of one represents the least risk, while a score of 99 indicates the most risk.
The Visa network sends the risk score to the cardholder’s financial institution, which decides whether or not to approve the transaction.
The program’s primary purpose is to help merchants and their banks assess risks and ensure legitimate transactions in real-time. Through AI and machine learning, the system checks over 150 transaction variables to help an issuer make an informative decision to approve or deny a transaction.
The variables Identity Check includes demonstrate just how far user authentication has come. Identity Check looks at screen brightness, user gestures, transaction history, and insights from the merchant and the card issuer to authenticate a payment.
If the transaction requires additional authentication to protect the buyer, Identity Check may employ biometrics—fingerprint or facial recognition—or a single-use password.
Mastercard, like the other credit card networks, also uses an EMV chip and secure tokenization system. An EMV chip is the square metallic chip on the front of your credit cards and debit cards. The chip reduces fraud by providing a unique code each time you make a purchase. Since the security code is unique for every purchase, it’s much harder for a thief to use the card to commit fraud.
EMV compliance law, enacted in October 2015, requests all U.S. merchants to update their payment systems to accept EMV cards, or they may be potentially liable for credit card fraud that originates at their business.
The company uses EMV chips on their chip and pin cards to provide a one-time encrypted code to verify your account information instantly. Thieves cannot make a counterfeit copy of your card since a unique code is generated each time you insert your card.
Card identification numbers (CIDs) are credit card security codes that add another layer of security. Your CID consists of four digits printed above your account number on the face of your American Express card. Even if a thief has your credit card number, they won’t be able to authorize online or other card-not-present transactions without the CID.
According to American Express, their network facilitates $1.2 trillion in transaction value each year. To facilitate safe transactions, they use fraud protection that analyzes numerous variables for risk in real-time.
Recognizing that fraudsters are migrating to card-not-present transactions, due in part to the positive impact EMV technology is making in the card-present space, Discover is focusing its efforts on online credit card transaction security.
Discover’s primary weapon against fraudulent credit card activity online is ProtectBuy, which the company describes as a Three Domain Secure (3DS) customer authentication solution. With Three Domain authentication, the merchant, network and issuer join together in a secure pipeline to validate a purchaser’s identity during an online transaction.
Early on, real-time risk authentication would challenge many transactions unnecessarily, leading to shopping cart abandonment while irritating consumers. Discover says they only challenge transactions with the strongest risk signals.
When a transaction warrants extra security measures, Discover texts or emails a one-time password to the cardholder. The customer can then enter the password in the ProtectBuy pop-up on the merchant’s page without entering login information or answering security questions.
—Browse securely: Before you initiate an online purchase, look for “https” in the web address to verify your browser connection is secure and encrypted.
—Avoid open networks: Never submit sensitive information while using a public Wi-Fi network that doesn’t use passwords. Open networks give thieves easy access to monitor and steal your private data.
—Consider using virtual credit cards for card-not-present purchases: A virtual credit card number is a unique one-time credit card number associated with your account but is different from the number printed on your card. Virtual credit cards provide a secure way to pay for purchases online or over the phone while safeguarding your physical credit card’s information. Visa, Mastercard and American express offer virtual credit card numbers, but Discover discontinued this benefit in favor of $0 liability protection and a credit freeze feature.
—Be skeptical: Exercise caution whenever a person or business asks you for personal information via email, text, phone, or instant messaging. The financial institutions and government agencies you deal with already know your account numbers and personal data and are unlikely to ask for them.