Albert Einstein is said to have called compound interest “the most powerful force in the universe.” A recent budget analysis shows how that powerful force would affect U.S. fiscal policy if Congress follows recommendations to boost annual military spending by 5 percent per year over the next decade.
Following the House Armed Service Committee’s (HASC) passage of the 2022 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) on Sept. 1, HASC ranking member Mike Rogers (R-Ala.) touted that he helped secure a 5 percent increase over the Department of Defense’s topline budget for last year.
This year, a 5 percent increase in the Pentagon’s 2021 budget results in $37.5 billion of extra spending. But that number quickly skyrockets to more than $100 billion in extra spending per year by 2026 and $200 billion per year by 2030.
“The differences compound over time, exceeding a $100-billion delta in four years (FY 2026) and a $200-billion delta in eight years (FY 2030),” said Lautz, referring to “delta” as the difference between the current long-term Pentagon budget forecast and what would be spent if the 5 percent increase plan was followed.
“Add it up over 10 years, and the defense hawks would have us spend $1,244,600,390,000 — that’s more than $1.2 trillion—more on defense than current projections,” said Lautz, the director of federal policy for NTU.
Lautz further noted that lawmakers haven’t proposed spending cuts to offset their ambitious funding increases for the military. He also questioned the need for certain projects the increases would fund, such as the F-35, which he describes as “highly troubled,” and warship construction in what he said are overburdened shipyards.
At a Sept. 1 Brookings Institution webinar, HASC Chairman Adam Smith (D-Wash.) downplayed criticisms of the $25 billion spending increase.
“I don’t support the argument that ‘oh my gosh, we can’t spend another $25 billion because we have all these other priorities.’ We’ve spent a lot of money on those other priorities,” Smith said, referencing the roughly $6 trillion in stimulus injected into the economy over the past year-plus.
But viewing a $25 billion increase in a vacuum is the wrong take, given the strong support in Washington to make these 5 percent increases indefinite, Lautz said.