Chinese leader Xi Jinping is telling China’s armed forces to focus on strengthening its combat readiness over the next five years because of domestic and international uncertainties.
In a March 9 address to delegates during Beijing’s annual legislative sessions, Xi, who heads the Central Military Commission, said that ensuring its armed forces are prepared for war should be the nation’s leading military objective.
“The current security circumstances of our country are largely unstable and uncertain,” he said. He instructed the armed forces to “heighten their sense of urgency” and “hurry up” to accomplish the annual military objectives as outlined in the 14th Five Year Plan, the country’s latest policy roadmap.
“The Chinese military as a whole must make ready to meet with various complex and difficult circumstances, and resolutely defend national sovereignty, safety, and development interests,” Xi said.
Over the coming year, Beijing plans to spend more than 1.38 trillion yuan ($212 billion), an increase of about 6.8 percent from 2020, according to Wu Qian, the spokesperson for China’s Ministry of National Defense.
China faces homeland security challenges that “cannot be overlooked,” Wu said, including “rising hegemonism, power politics, unilateralism”—wording that Beijing frequently invokes when referring to the United States—among threats he said would undermine China.
“The world is far from peaceful, therefore our national defense must scale up,” he said.
While the Chinese regime has denied that it’s seeking to pursue hegemony, it has grown more aggressive in the Taiwan Strait and the South China Sea.
Chinese warplanes have intruded into the air defense identification zone of Taiwan, a self-ruling island that the regime claims as part of its territory, on a near-daily basis since the start of this year. Last week, it abruptly banned the import of Taiwanese pineapple because of pests; more than 90 percent of Taiwan’s pineapple exports went to China last year.
He reiterated the same position in the March 7 interview, saying that the Chinese Communist Party “reserves the option to deploy all necessary measures” to bring Taiwan under its fold, including using military force.
He described the Indo-Pacific region as the “most consequential region for America’s future,” where the United States’s deterrence posture “must demonstrate the capability, the capacity, and the will to convince Beijing unequivocally the costs of achieving their objectives by the use of military force are simply too high.”