Taiwanese government criticized the Chinese communist regime for using the island’s COVID-19 outbreak to attack the self-ruled island on May 19.
Beijing authorities made and spread fake information mixed with truth on Taiwan social media platforms and pro-Beijing Taiwanese media with a purpose to “deepening the conflicts among Taiwanese people,” “worsening the outbreak,” “reducing the whole society’s productive activities,” “damaging the economy and stock market,” and “frustrating Taiwanese people,” spokesman for the unicameral legislature of Taiwan Lo Ping-cheng said at a press conference at the Executive Yuan in Taipei on Wednesday.
Lo said the acts of psychological warfare were performed by the network system department of the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP’s) People’s Liberation Army, the Chinese Ministry of National Security, and China’s Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council.
The Taiwanese government warned people that some of the rumors they are seeing were created by the CCP across the Taiwan Strait, in an act of psychological warfare.
Tsai said that the “disinfectant used is 1:50 diluted bleach, which has no direct harm to the human body and can ensure the effectiveness of our disinfection effect.” She criticized the “many false messages” being circulated and said that the epidemic prevention team would make greater efforts to better explain its operations.
“We don’t know if they are true or false,” Tsai said.
Lo pointed to another example of psychological warfare during the press conference on May 19.
Chinese state-run media, Taiwanese pro-Beijing media, and Taiwanese pro-Beijing politicians then promoted Zhu’s statement.
Lo pointed out that what Zhu said wasn’t correct, and the CCP was trying to convince Taiwanese people that mainland China had successfully curbed the pandemic, and that the Taiwanese government hasn’t done well.
“Once there’s a significant development in Taiwan, the Chinese communist regime will strengthen its use of psychological warfare,” he said.
Tung listed the methods that the CCP uses: creating fake stories using content farms, using artificial intelligence to generate and spread the fake news, and organizing a large number of trolls to target Taiwanese people on social media platforms.
“They use extreme words to defame and discredit the efforts and achievements of the Taiwan government during the pandemic,” Tung said, like “Taiwan will collapse soon ... even a lockdown of the cities won’t work.”
Chen Shih-chung, Taiwan’s Health Minister, told a press conference that 2,825 patients had been diagnosed in Taiwan since January 2020, with 1,103 of them being international arrivals. To date, 15 patients have died of COVID-19 in Taiwan.