He insisted that the NIH didn’t fund so-called gain-of-function research, which he defined as “taking a virus that could infect humans and making it either more transmissible and/or pathogenic to humans,” at the Wuhan lab, claiming that the purpose of the $600,000 grant “was to study the animal-human interface, to do surveillance, and to determine if these bat viruses were even capable of transmitting infection to humans.”
Fauci was further pressed about the matter during a Senate hearing on May 26, with Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.) questioning Fauci’s faith in the Wuhan lab’s scientists, whom Fauci had called “very respectable” just one day prior.
“How do you know they didn’t lie to you and use the money for gain-of-function research anyway?” Kennedy asked Fauci.
Fauci acknowledged he couldn’t be certain whether the money was used against its intended purpose.
“You never know,” he said.
Following Fauci’s remarks, Rep. Warren Davidson (R-Ohio) called for his removal. In an appearance on “Fox and Friends” on May 27, Davidson accused Fauci of providing “cover for China” amid Beijing’s resistance to a transparent probe into the origins of the outbreak.
“People like Dr. Fauci have provided cover for them. The World Health Organization [is] providing cover for them. And very shockingly, many of our fellow countrymen have provided cover for China. They’d rather blame Republicans or Donald Trump. And that’s why political science should not be able to trump science. And Dr. Fauci has led that charge. He needs to be fired,” he said.
Reschenthaler argued that Fauci misled the public in the early stages of the pandemic with regard to mask guidance.
“Right now in the United States, people should not be walking around with masks,” Fauci said in March 2020.
He later clarified that he meant that masks should be prioritized for health workers, but Reschenthaler insisted that Fauci had lied.
“He blatantly lied to Congress about masks and the American people, saying they don’t help, and then he said, ‘Oh no, I was lying so we could hoard [personal protective equipment],’” Reschenthaler said.
The Pennsylvania Republican also objected to Fauci initially dismissing the theory that the CCP virus had originated in and escaped from the Wuhan lab.
Recently, Fauci said he’s no longer certain that COVID-19 developed naturally, and called for an open investigation into the origins of the virus.
“Certainly, the people who investigated it say it likely was the emergence from an animal reservoir that then infected individuals, but it could have been something else, and we need to find that out. That’s the reason why I said I’m perfectly in favor of any investigation that looks into the origin of the virus.”
The Wuhan facility, home of China’s only P4 lab—a class of laboratory with the highest level of biosecurity where research on the world’s most dangerous diseases are conducted—has been in the spotlight amid concerns that the CCP virus may have originated there, rather than by making a natural jump from bats to humans.
The CCP has denied any link between the virus’s origin and the Wuhan lab and has pushed a “natural zoonotic” hypothesis—that the virus was transmitted to humans from an animal host. However, Beijing has so far failed to identify the original animal species that allegedly passed the virus on to humans.
“As far as WHO is concerned, all hypotheses remain on the table ... We have not yet found the source of the virus,” Ghebreyesus said.