At the same time, he displayed a Tesla logo superimposed on a Texas-style sheriff badge that read “Don’t Mess With” onscreen, while wearing a Western-style bandana around his neck.
The key reason Musk gave for the move is “there’s a limit to how big you can scale it in the Bay Area.”
The headquarters in California are located at a site previously used for a joint venture between General Motors and Toyota.
Musk said that when Tesla moved into the factory, it was a like a child putting on his or her parents’ giant shoes, but now it’s difficult to add “more stuff” to the factory. Furthermore, he said, “it’s difficult for people to afford houses [and] people have to come in from far away.”
Fremont is in the heart of California’s Silicon Valley, which also includes San Jose and the home of Stanford University, Palo Alto. According to Musk’s comments, Tesla’s artificial intelligence, chip design, and some other engineering functions will remain in Silicon Valley.
The factory and headquarters in Austin will be “five minutes from the airport, 15 minutes from downtown, [and] we’re going to create an ecological paradise” along the neighboring Colorado River, not to be confused with the Colorado River that runs between California and Arizona.
Musk was careful to state, “This is not a matter of Tesla leaving California.” Indeed, he emphasized that all Model S and Model X cars are made in the Fremont factory.
However, when he was congratulating his China team for getting the Shanghai factory to make cars of the “best quality [and] lowest cost,” he did add “and also low drama,” presumably referring to the issues surrounding the mandatory factory closure at the beginning of the pandemic in California. He may have also been hinting at other possible issues that many manufactures in California have cited for moving production outside the state, including avoiding the rigorous air and water quality rules.
In a study of 2020 population changes, Chapman University found that the No. 1 reason people leave California is high home prices and that the No. 2 reason is California’s high level of regulation compared to other states.