“It’s clear to me that if we went to war in the Taiwan Strait tomorrow, we’d probably lose,” Gallagher said. “It’s also clear to me that the threat horizon for the Taiwan scenario is growing more near by the day.”
“I am very concerned about our failure to build a bigger navy,” Gallagher said. “I think you’re seeing a less favorable balance of power by the day.”
As such, Gallagher said that the United States ought to consider repurposing extant resources and work to more effectively deploy key forces throughout the Indo-Pacific.
“What we need to do is find ways that we can rapidly surge combat power into the region with innovative options that we can field in the next three to five years,” the congressman said.
He suggested deploying a dispersed force across the Indo-Pacific, likely mostly made up of Marines along with long-range missile capabilities, stationed in places like Guam, Midway Atoll, and maybe even Palau.
For Gallagher, having hard power in the region was necessary for projecting soft power abroad. But the Pentagon, in the lawmaker’s view, doesn’t feel a sense of urgency about the situation with Taiwan, and is instead about to take a “massive step backward” in its approach to dealing with China.
“I really think it’s a bankrupt buzzword that’s going to be used as a smoke screen to cover for the fact that we are going to disinvest in hard power or in conventional deterrence and put all of our eggs in the basket of a ‘technological Third Offset’,” Gallagher said.
The “Third Offset” was a strategy promoted by the DoD in 2014 that focused resources on research and development planning, as well as increased cooperation with the private sector, as key methods of mitigating the advantages of other great powers like China and Russia.
Gallagher argued that the United States would need to develop a more realistic approach that integrated a full understanding of the Chinese Communist Party’s global ambitions, while not sacrificing long-term strategic goals to short-term crises.