The United States and South Korea affirmed that they will build a strong and resilient supply chain and deepen cooperation in space and cyber domains, ensuring a trustworthy and value-oriented digital and technological ecosystem. The two sides committed to increasing mutual investments, including semiconductors and chips, as well as research and development cooperation in the fields of Artificial Intelligence (AI), next-generation communications networks (6G), quantum technology, biotechnology, and many others.
Hong Kong financial analyst Katherine Jiang Tianming said in an exclusive interview with The Epoch Times that the United States has been leading the decoupling of global supply chains from China. Looking back on the measures that the United States has taken in recent years, there are three parts. The resilient U.S.-South Korean supply chain is the third part of the U.S.-led global decoupling from China.
“This clearly signals the world that the United States and Taiwan are jointly restructuring supply chains,” said Jiang.
“Roadmap to Resilient Supply Chains” clearly outlines the changes in the supply chains: the former supply chain model was that Taiwan first took orders, then outsourced intermediate goods such as components to China for assembly and exported the finished products to developed countries. However, the model will change. In general industries, such as clothing and hats, the CCP economy will still play an “assembly” role in the entire industrial chain, but Southeast Asian countries will step in and share a piece of the pie.
As to the strategically important industries, the CCP will be excluded from the entire industrial chain and Taiwan will cooperate with like-minded nations in production and technology. These key industries include semiconductors, personal protective equipment (PPE), electric vehicles, etc.
Jiang stated that TSMC is like a miniature of Taiwan. Taiwan’s high-tech superiority and the global chip shortage have accentuated the global popularity of TSMC and the strategic importance of Taiwan in global supply chains. The United States has cooperated with Taiwan to restructure the supply chain, while they have also made it clear that removing the CCP from strategically important industries is the second part of decoupling the global industrial chain from the CCP.
The United States is forging ahead with decoupling its supply chain from the CCP. South Korea is now strengthening cooperation with the United States, and given that the latter has established decoupling mechanisms in its regulatory and legal sectors, it is likely that South Korea will also gradually decouple from the CCP.
Jiang pointed out that the decoupling of U.S. supply chains from the CCP will gradually cause an economic predicament for the CCP because there are a number of middle-end and low-end industries that are technically deficient.