A pair of Republican lawmakers unveiled a bill on June 15 that seeks to sanction top Chinese health officials and hold the communist regime accountable until it allows an independent probe into whether COVID-19 originated in a Wuhan lab.
“As the leader of the free world, the United States must hold Chinese Communist Party officials accountable for their unconscionable actions,” Stefanik said in a statement. "A thorough, unimpeded investigation is necessary to determine the extent of their actions and prevent the Chinese Communist Party from financially benefiting, in any form, especially at the expense of the American people.”
Early reports about an outbreak of the CCP virus first appeared in Wuhan in late 2019, when a cluster of cases was reported by state-controlled media to be linked to a local wet market. More than a year later, the origins of the virus remain unknown, although the possibility that the virus leaked from a laboratory at the WIV is gaining traction.
President Joe Biden has ordered the U.S. Intelligence Community (IC) to ramp up efforts to investigate the virus’s origins.
The National Academy of Sciences would also be banned from using federal funds to enter into new contracts to fund Chinese-based institutes or universities that are part of China’s National Health Commission.
In addition, the bill would also review whether National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding has been directly or indirectly funneled to gain-of-function research.
“We cannot allow China to impede a free and fair investigation into the origins of COVID-19,” Wittman said in a statement. “Nor can we tolerate China’s suppression of information which could prove critically important to preventing future pandemics. The sanctions imposed by the World Deserves to Know Act pave the way to uncover the truth about COVID-19’s origins.”
Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on June 13 that Beijing must work with further investigations into the origins of the CCP virus. He noted that China’s failure to cooperate was one reason that the World Health Organization’s initial report didn’t go well.
Blinken said the initial report—a phase one study published by the WHO in March—“had real problems with it, not the least of which was China’s failure to cooperate.”