Taiwan recently unveiled a national team dedicated to quantum computing R&D, taking advantage of the island’s advanced semiconductor industry.
The team consists of 72 experts and 24 enterprises, including specialists from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and Foxconn, who will research quantum elements, computers, and communications systems.
Although feasible applications are still thought to be decades away, the technologies are theoretically capable of exceeding the physical limitations of conventional computers upon successful creation.
MOEA unveiled a plan to invest more than $11 million in the next four years, while MOST pledged $8 million over five years. The government fundings aim to kickstart Taiwan’s development of its own quantum computers.
More private firms are expected to join R&D efforts, and the funding would be substantially increased depending on the progress, Felix Gwo, the convener of a panel for advancing the development of quantum systems, told The Epoch Times.
Funding will not be limited to funds from the government, he added.
According to Taiwan’s DigiTimes, TSMC, the world’s largest chipmaker, has started poaching quantum computing research talent by offering three times their original salary prior to 2020.
Head of the MOEA’s Department of Industrial Technology, Chiou Chyou-huey, said that quantum technologies were expected to generate enormous business opportunities globally, according to CNA. Quantum computing requires miniaturization technologies, which is the strength of TSMC’s silicon chips.
Academia Sinica President James Liao said the institution’s research staff had spent a decade extensively researching quantum computing technology and quantum materials.
Academia Sinica has already been able to build superconducting qubits, the basic unit of quantum information. The Taipei-based national academy already has the technologies to generate and read qubits, as well as control the state of qubits.
Liao added that quantum computers’ powerful computation abilities are expected to bring about a breakthrough for the pharmaceutical sector. If applied to drug discovery, they could model and test new drugs through molecular simulation.
Minister of MOST, Wu Tsung-tsong, added that quantum technology would significantly impact cybersecurity, the financial sector, and the national defense industry.
A qubit or quantum bit is the basic unit of quantum information. The higher the qubit rating, the more advanced the processors are needed.