“I’d like to strike an optimistic note and I’m very confident that the future of China is going to be great and that China is headed towards being the biggest economy in the world and a lot of prosperity in the future,” the Tesla CEO told China Central Television in March 2021.
To Peter Navarro, former White House trade adviser under the Trump administration—what someone did is more important than what they say they will do.
“Your misguided expansion into the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region sets a poor example and further empowers the CCP,” the Democrats stated.
“On the last day of 2021, we meet in Xinjiang,” Musk wrote on Weibo, the Chinese Twitter-like platform. “In 2022, let’s start an all-electric journey in Xinjiang!” The post is accompanied by pictures of the opening ceremony, where people hold placards like “Tesla [heart] Xinjiang.”
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) said in a press conference on April 19 that he believes Musk is trying to liberate Twitter from being an “agent of censorship,” giving as examples the New York Post and Babylon Bee having been shut down from the platform.
“[Twitter was] censoring accounts like the Babylon Bee which is a satirical site. They don’t like it because it’s satire, but it cuts and they don’t like it [that] people are effective like that. So you saw how [censorship] had been really used to control the narrative, not to give the ability of people to speak their mind. They advertise themselves as being a platform dedicated to the free expression of ideas and yet, when you have a New York Post article about Hunter Biden, what do they do? They take it down, they lock the New York Post’s account,” DeSantis said.
“And so what Musk is trying to do is basically [liberate Twitter] from being an agent of censorship into making it an actual open platform like it’s advertised,” the governor further noted.
“The threat of blackmail is there with everybody. As between the way Twitter is being currently run and the way he would run it, I’m more comfortable with Musk. At least he seems to actually give a damn about the First Amendment,” Dundas told The Epoch Times.
“Elon Musk would be preferable to the current management scheme in terms of being less inclined to censor. And given his current station in life, I doubt anybody is going to bribe or blackmail him to go against his stated goals of protecting free speech. I believe the path provided under Musk’s direction would be a huge step forward, although frankly, it’s hard to envision a scenario right now more censorial than that which Dorsey created, which banned the leader of the free world while allowing known terrorist organizations like Hamas and the Ayatollah and Maduro to remain,” Dundas said.
“When Donald Trump becomes president in January 2025, I think one of the first things he'll do is a move to break up the social media companies and turn them into public utilities. They need to be dealt with. And I think they will be,” Navarro said.
Then-president Trump was completely banned from Twitter in January 2021.
A social media app named Truth Social—created by a company founded by Trump—is available on Apple’s app store, but is not yet fully operational.
Devin Nunes, a former lawmaker and current CEO of Truth Social, was asked in a recent interview on Fox News what he thought of Musk taking a stake in Twitter and joining its board.
Nunes responded that Trump’s intention in backing Truth Social was prompted by a desire to “open the internet back up so that the American people can get their voice back.”