Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is warning the public about the potential threat to democracy that COVID lockdowns, along with mandates and other modus operandi, could lead to—unparalleled levels of oppression.
Kennedy believes that the populace must resist a technocratic power grab, which is in its final stages of consolidation via a sinister medical cartel, if they don’t want to end up under unprecedented levels of tyranny.
He asserts that an “arms race,” is taking place: on one side, there is a group that is trying to implement “turnkey totalitarianism” through the utilization of technology.
“Facial recognition systems, pervasive 5G data collection systems, vaccine passports, digitalized currencies, and other technological devices that give authoritarian elements the capacity for total control of human behavior,” Kennedy told The Epoch Times. “On one side we have an arms race to put those instrumentalities in place.”
“And on the other side, we have our efforts to wake up and arouse the sleeping public, and get them onto the streets and actively resisting the implementation of tyranny.”
The CCP collects and analyzes data, particularly targeting the younger population, and claims that its aim is to encourage “good” behavior, censure “bad” behavior, and uphold its “socialist values.”
“And at some point, the ambition of every totalitarian regime in history has been complete control of every aspect of human conduct, all of our expressions, and all of our interactions and transactions.
“But no totalitarian regime in history has had the capacity to do that, to come anywhere close. There were always ways to escape even [during] the Nazi regime, you could cross the Alps, you could swim the Rhine, you could hide in an attic, you could cross over the border into Switzerland,” Kennedy said.
“But today, the pervasiveness of intrusive technology gives totalitarian regimes the capacity for total control.”
To the group of people who would favor a totalitarian system that they think would take care of them better, Kennedy answered: “I will remind people of what Benjamin Franklin said, which is that any society that thinks it can trade a little bit of security for a little bit of liberty, will lose both and deserves neither.”