NEW DELHI—The Indian government has issued an order banning 54 Chinese mobile applications that it says constitute a threat to the country’s national security, according to local reports. The move is the latest in a series of similar bans instituted amid a protracted border dispute between the two sides.
The Indian Ministry of Home Affairs issued a Feb. 13 statement saying that the 54 applications could collect sensitive user data through phone cameras and microphones for espionage and surveillance activities.
“India is now taking cybersecurity more seriously because of the increasing digitization of the economy and the threat such Chinese apps, as well as Chinese telecom equipment, pose,” Pathikrit Payne, a New Delhi-based research consultant in geopolitical and strategic affairs, told The Epoch Times.
The additional applications banned this week range from mobile games to video chats and selfie camera apps from Chinese companies such as Tencent, Alibaba, and NetEase. Some of the apps are clones or rebrands of apps banned in previous orders, according to local media reports.
The most popular app banned by the order is Free Fire, a battle royale shooter game owned by Singapore-based gaming giant Sea. The company’s largest shareholder is Chinese tech giant Tencent.
“Those are games and apps that have been actually collecting a lot of metadata of citizens around the world, and then they feed it into the CCP’s AI machine. And we all know AI is mostly constrained by the data: The more data you have, the stronger the AI is,” Lee said. “Once China controls the metadata as well as the channels themselves, they are able to tweak the human psyche, or just what people are thinking about, via cyberwar.”
He pointed to the Chinese connection in the banned Free Fire gaming app owned by Sea. The company was founded in Singapore by Chinese-born founders who later became Singaporean citizens. While some may not be aware of this connection, Free Fire’s case “suggests that China uses all possible loopholes to penetrate the Indian market because of its huge consumer population.”
Representatives for Sea didn’t respond to a request for comment by press time.
The presence of Chinese apps in India provides the CCP with an advantage, allowing it to explore the Indian market and simultaneously keep the Indian population exposed to espionage, while the Chinese market remains closed to foreign mobile apps, according to Darbey.
“China doesn’t entertain foreign social media applications or any other mobile app in their land, and they do this in order to keep themselves safer against any form of surveillance or espionage activities,” he said.
In China, a host of Western websites and platforms have been blocked, including Facebook, Twitter, and Google.
“The CCP doesn’t want its Chinese population to exchange any form of communication with the rest of the world. All of these regulations have been followed very strictly in China imposed by the CCP, therefore the Party guarantees their internal security without giving any chance of information exchange of any kind,” Darbey said.