Former Chinese leader Jiang Zemin recently passed away, leaving behind a legacy that includes ushering China into a modern surveillance state.
China gained access to the internet in 1994, at the time when Jiang was the communist regime’s top leader as the general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Jiang would eventually hold the position until November 2002.
Soon after Jiang took internet censorship to a new level after launching an elimination campaign targeting Falun Gong practitioners in July 1999.
“[Jiang] expanded the targets of repression with a 1998 crackdown on the China Democracy Party, the first prosecutions of cyber dissidents, and most significantly, the 1999 launch of a campaign to wipe out Falun Gong, then practiced by tens of millions of Chinese,” Cook wrote.
She added, “The development of online censorship was subsequently accelerated to contain news of abuses committed during these crackdowns and to restrict use of the internet for political organization.”
The practice surged in popularity after it was introduced to the public in 1992, with 70 million to 100 million adherents in China by the end of the decade, according to estimates at the time. Jiang perceived the enormous following as a threat to his rule, thus launching the persecution.
China’s Great Firewall now blocks Chinese citizens from accessing online content deemed unacceptable to the communist regime, including Twitter, Facebook, and Minghui.org—a website set up by a U.S.-based nonprofit dedicated to reporting on the persecution of Falun Gong in China. The Epoch Times is also blocked in China.
U.S.-based China affairs analyst Tang Jingyuan said that the Great Firewall was more than just a tool for Jiang to prevent the persecution from getting publicized—it was also a tool to allow him to brainwash the Chinese people.
Heng He, a U.S.-based China affairs commentator, told The Epoch Times that the Golden Shield Project, much like the Great Firewall, was created with the intention of using it against Falun Gong practitioners. And some of the early databases included those containing information on people practicing Falun Gong, he added.
Like his father, Jiang Mianheng saw the internet as something that the communist regime must have tight control of.
China’s Ministry of State Security (MSS), the 610 Office, and the Political and Legal Affairs Commission are among several different CCP agencies that have been relying on both the Great Firewall and the Golden Shield Project in their efforts to persecute Falun Gong practitioners, according to Heng.
China’s effort to censor Falun Gong online has previously been disguised in the form of innocent-sounding computer software. In 2009, China’s IT officials demanded that all personal computers sold in the country must have the internet software named “Green Dam Youth Escort” pre-installed. The regime claimed the software was designed mainly to block pornography and filter illicit content.
People can have points taken away from their social credit score by committing behaviors deemed undesirable by the CCP such as jaywalking. Those with low social credit scores are deemed “untrustworthy,” and thus deprived access to services and opportunities. They could be barred from traveling by plane or attending schools, among other things. Critics have slammed the system as a violation of human rights.
It was Jiang who provided one of the first indications that the communist regime would develop the system decades ago.
During a Party congress in November 2002, Jiang said there was a need to “establish a social credit system compatible with a modern market economy.”
In September 2019, the National Reform and Development Commission, the communist regime’s top economic planning body, announced it had completed the first round of a corporate social credit system covering about 33 million firms. The announcement did not say how many of these firms were foreign or private companies.
“Some patients didn’t know why such questions were asked, but they still gave a truthful account of their religious faith. It isn’t a good thing. It may seem innocuous at the moment, but the government can exploit this information if it needs to,” an unnamed medical worker from central China’s Henan Province told the magazine.
A director of a hospital in eastern China’s Shandong Province said the information collected from patients, including their religious status, was uploaded to a government-run database.
The report added, “The CCP’s surveillance machinery reaches beyond state-owned mobile phone companies or internet gateways into message groups and social media platforms run by ostensibly private companies.”
The report pointed to the example of Song Xiaomei, a 51-year-old woman from northern China’s Liaoning Province, who was arrested and beaten by police in October 2021 after returning home from a trip to Japan. She was arrested because she shared information about the persecution on Twitter during her overseas trip.
Another example involved Gao Xiaoqi, a Falun Gong practitioner who was arrested in July 2020.
“She had been identified as a practitioner with Skynet’s facial recognition technology because she had previously met with other Falun Gong practitioners in the area, and was sentenced to nine years in prison,” the report stated.
In China, Falun Gong practitioners often distribute flyers to the public, to convince people not to believe in hate propaganda and disinformation about the practice being promoted by China’s state-run media. However, many of them have been arrested and persecuted, as their acts are caught on surveillance cameras.
He added, “Since these systems often lack due process and public oversight, the Xi regime has effectively built out the world’s most comprehensive digital architecture for repression.”
The expert gave examples of how this system is used for control.
“GPS sensors, and smartphones, and cars, plus facial recognition that can track citizens across the city, make it difficult for private and covert religious communities to form and operate undetected,” he said, “while smart televisions and cell phones make it possible to remotely watch and hear private prayers within a home.”