If time is on China’s side in its drive for global hegemony, then the United States, and all who support the current system’s rule of law, have an incentive to militarily and economically contain or even preempt China’s rise.
On the other hand, if time is not on China’s side, then those who oppose Beijing’s totalitarian vision of world politics may have the benefit of a slower and more deliberate approach to what would then be the containment of Beijing’s floundering attempts against America and our allies’ superior strategic position.
I recently had the luck to consider this topic more deeply in discussion with Mr. David Stilwell over dim sum brunch.
“The longer Taiwan remains effectively independent of the PRC [People’s Republic of China], the harder it will become to incorporate into the Orwellian CCP [Chinese Communist Party] system,” he said.
While the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) of Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen has consistently taken a tough stand against Beijing, her opposition in the Kuomintang (KMT) party attempted to increase engagement with the mainland for years.
After 2018, however, the KMT’s “fortunes crashed,” according to Stilwell.
That loss of soft power was a major blow to Beijing’s global ambitions.
The CCP’s decreased popularity in Taiwan was partly explained by its clumsy treatment of Hong Kong, a “very foolish move” on the part of Beijing, according to Stilwell.
Beijing broke the Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984, meant to protect the city’s political autonomy until 2047.
After that rupture, “no sane [Taiwan] politician would ever suggest cooperating with the Mainland again,” Stilwell wrote in an email after the brunch meeting.
“As we’re seeing with Beijing’s empty threats on the Pelosi trip, they’re reluctant to pull the trigger given how bad things are going domestically.”
Stilwell points out that if the People’s Liberation Army attempted an invasion of Taiwan, it would be tough going if U.S. experiences in Somalia and Iraq are any indication.
Russia is a powerful ally as it has the world’s biggest stock of nuclear weapons, more land than any other country, the sixth-largest oil reserves, and a commanding position in Eurasia’s natural gas extraction and pipeline network.
Increased Russian export reliance on Beijing, due to Western sanctions, arguably draws the two countries closer than ever and gives Beijing leadership of this new “axis of evil.”
But Stilwell characterized the “Beijing-Moscow entente” as “an inch deep and narrowly issue-based.”
One risk to the alliance is Beijing’s multi-directional avarice for more territory, including that to its northeast.
Stilwell wrote that China’s netizens are “eager to recover territory lost to Russia in the 1860 Treaty of Peking, in which the weak Qing dynasty ceded a huge chunk of NE China to the Russians, to include the port of Vladivostok.” This deprived China of access to the Sea of Japan.
Russia has long been aware of its relatively unpopulated and undefended eastern flank. This should be all the more apparent to Moscow after having moved so much military strength west to fight in Ukraine.
However, Stilwell noted that Beijing exaggerates its economic power, pointing to the Chinese communists’ recent economic challenges.
“As the external and domestic pressures from COVID build, the incentive to create positive numbers grows,” he wrote, citing the shutdown of “entire cities over a handful of infections and the incredibly tone deaf response to legitimate concern of the people.”
He agrees that China is catching up with the United States but notes that “the rate of advance is slowing as their legitimate (and otherwise) access to our R&D [research and development] outcomes slows.”
More stringent screening of Chinese investment by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), for example, has increased downward pressure on China’s ability to procure platforms in the United States for technological design, innovation, and theft.
Stilwell points out that China’s “ability to take a good idea (from whatever source) and turn it into military hardware is much greater than ours.”
However, he believes that the U.S. system has preferable economic and managerial processes that advantage U.S. military development in the long term.
Stilwell asks us to recall “why our system has developed the way it has—our POM [production and operations management] and acquisition processes are as cumbersome as they are because 1) there are strong oversight and anti-corruption measures built in, and 2) funding is considered for the next 5-10 years, which keeps us from starting a project like the F-22 and then having to abandon it due to lack of funds.”
Stilwell argues that American industry “won’t invest large sums into a major weapons system, using unproven (but necessary) new technology without some guarantee of long-term funding.”
China does, however, absorb advantage from our superior military procurement processes.
If time is on America’s side, as Stilwell argues so convincingly, we can be more deliberate in our strategy.