It is a humbling thing to realize, in this age of information, that our human brain still remains such an enigma.
The computer, at that time, could accommodate a network model of 1.73 billion nerve cells (neurons). The human brain, however, has some 100 billion neurons. To put that in perspective, the human brain has about as many neurons as there are stars in the Milky Way.
Though the computer succeeded in simulating one second of brain activity, it took 40 minutes.
The K supercomputer was the fastest computer in the world until it was overshadowed in 2011 (it was decommissioned in 2019). But in 2014, it was able to process 10.51 Petaflops per second (Petaflop/s), which you can understand as about 10,510 trillion calculations per second. Since advancements in technology move fast, we'll put that in perspective. In just three years, supercomputer Tianhe-2 tripled K’s computing power by achieving 33.86 Petaflop/s (33,860 trillion calculations per second).
At that time, the graphics unit inside an iPhone 5s produced about 0.0000768 Petaflop/s. Thus, the fastest computer in the world was some 440,000 times faster than the graphics unit inside the iPhone 5s but still slower than the human brain by orders of magnitude.
To put that in perspective, one megawatt equals 1 million watts. A 100-watt light bulb draws 100 watts as soon as it is turned on since “watt” refers to the power used instantaneously. So the fastest computer in the world draws as much power as 176,000 light bulbs.
Jeff Layton, Ph.D., a Dell enterprise technologist, wrote in a blog post: “These systems are terribly large, expensive, and power hungry.”
The South China Morning Post reported in an article about the Tianhe-2, which is located in China: “Unlike home computers that can handle various tasks, ranging from word processing to gaming and web browsing, supercomputers are built for very specific purposes. To exploit their full computational capabilities, researchers have to spend months, if not years, writing or rewriting software codes to train the machine to do a job efficiently.”
First, we‘ll look at how many bits per second (bps) your brain can process, then we’ll look at how many bps an average modem can process. You can think of this in terms of how long it takes you to upload a picture via the Internet versus how long it takes you to process what you see before your eyes.
Dr. Tor Nørretranders, an adjunct professor of the Philosophy of Science at Copenhagen Business School, wrote a book titled “The User Illusion: Cutting Consciousness Down to Size,” in which he stated that the conscious mind processes about 40 bps, whereas the subconscious mind processes 11 million bps.
Now, let’s look at how fast your household modem is.
One megabit per second (Mbps) is equal to 1 million bps; household modems can operate at anywhere from 50 Mbps to several hundred Mbps. That’s millions of times faster than your conscious mind, and at least five times that of your subconscious. Score one for computers here; they do outperform brains in this regard. Of course, so little is still understood about the subconscious that these figures are far from certain.
In an article written for MakeUseOf.com, electrical engineer and freelance writer Ryan Dube commented on the following statement by author Gary Marcus: “The fundamental difference between computers and the human mind is in the basic organization of memory.”
Dube wrote: “To retrieve data, the computer uses logical storage locations. A human brain, on the other hand, remembers where information is stored based on cues. Those cues are other pieces of information or memories connected to the information you need to retrieve.