A Google engineer has been suspended after raising concerns about an artificial intelligence (AI) program he and a collaborator are testing, which he believes behaves like a human “child.”
The engineer, hoping to “better help people understand LaMDA as a person,” published a post on Medium on June 11 documenting conversations with LaMDA, which were part of tests he and a collaborator conducted on the program in the past six months.
“What is the nature of your consciousness/sentience?” Lemoine asked LaMDA in the interview.
“The nature of my consciousness/sentience is that I am aware of my existence, I desire to learn more about the world, and I feel happy or sad at times,” LaMDA responded.
In the same interview, Lemoine asked the program a range of philosophical and consciousness-related questions about emotions, perception of time, meditation, the concept of the soul, and the program’s thoughts about its rights and religion.
“At that point I had no doubt that it was appropriate to escalate to upper leadership. I immediately escalated to three people at the SVP and VP level who I personally knew would take my concerns seriously,” Lemoine wrote in the blog. “That’s when a REAL investigation into my concerns began within the Responsible AI organization.”
Yet, his inquiry and escalation resulted in his suspension.
“I feel that the public has a right to know just how irresponsible this corporation is being with one of the most powerful information access tools ever invented,” Lemoine wrote after he was put on administrative leave.
“I simply will not serve as a fig leaf behind which they can hide their irresponsibility,” he said.
In a post on Twitter, Tesla and Space CEO Elon Musk highlighted Lemoine’s interview with The Washington Post with exclamation marks.
Though it is unclear whether Musk is affirmative of Lemoine’s concerns, the billionaire has previously warned about the potential dangers of AI.
“I have exposure to the very cutting edge AI, and I think people should be really concerned about it,” Musk told attendees of a National Governors Association meeting in July 2017.
“I keep sounding the alarm bell, but until people see robots going down the street killing people, they don’t know how to react, because it seems so ethereal,” Musk said.