Samsung Electronics Co. will spend 450 trillion won (about $360 billion) over the next several years until 2026 to boost its businesses, from semiconductor chips to pharmaceutical drugs.
In 2021, Samsung announced that it would invest $151 billion over the proceeding decade through 2030 in advanced chipmaking research. Much of the investment is expected to go into the semiconductor department, which is expanding rapidly as the company plans to take on leading chipmakers like Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (TSMC) and Intel Corp.
The new 450 trillion won investment plan comes as chip shortage continues to plague the electronics industry, and major chipmakers such as Samsung Electronics Co., Intel Corp., and TSMC are planning further price hikes.
“We expect a further round of price increases this year, but smaller (i.e. 5–7 percent),” Hanbury said. “The chemicals used in [chip] manufacturing have increased 10–20 percent. … Similarly, the labor required to build new semiconductor facilities has also seen shortages and increased wage rates.”
The continued shortages of semiconductor chips allow manufacturers to “charge a premium” as customers continue “pushing to secure supply,” he added. Hanbury expects the shortage of certain chips to start easing only by the end of this year.
TSMC—the world’s largest chip manufacturer—raised prices by 20 percent in 2021. The company told clients to expect a price hike of 5 to 8 percent from 2023. Another Taiwan-based chipmaker, United Microelectronics Corp., is planning a 4 percent price hike during the second quarter of 2022.
Samsung is expecting sustained demand from data centers for high-margin memory chips during the second half of 2022. However, the company warned that component shortages will also likely continue. Samsung is the largest memory chip manufacturer in the world.
“Companies are now expanding IT infrastructure, and cloud companies are expanding investments to explore new growth areas like artificial intelligence and machine learning,” Han Jin-man, executive vice president of Samsung’s memory chip business, said during an earnings call in April.