An opinion article published on the World Economic Forum (WEF) website has proposed creating an artificial intelligence program that could end up acting as a comprehensive global censorship tool.
In the article, writer and cybersecurity expert Inbal Goldberger proposes combining a powerful AI network with input from human intelligence data to track and preemptively stop certain content from circulating online.
“Since the introduction of the internet, wars have been fought, recessions have come and gone and new viruses have wreaked havoc,” Goldberger writes. “While the internet played a vital role in how these events were perceived, other changes—like the radicalization of extreme opinions, the spread of misinformation and the wide reach of child sexual abuse material (CSAM)—have been enabled by it.”
The article mentions the importance of deciphering the coded language used by child abusers and pornographers to disseminate CSAM and removing the content before it’s widely shared.
But along with this, Goldberger also mentions that the AI would be used to detect “extremism,” “disinformation,” and “hate speech.”
The proposed AI program would be supplemented by “off-platform” human intelligence gathering, Goldberger stated.
The article has been widely criticized on conservative news sites.
In response to the online backlash against the article, the WEF added a note to readers at the top of the page.
“Please be aware that this article has been shared on websites that routinely misrepresent content and spread misinformation,” the note reads, adding that the content of the article is “the opinion of the author,” not the World Economic Forum.
The WEF also has ties with the Chinese Community Party (CCP), and its programs feature Chinese politicians and businessmen. In a virtual dialogue held in July, Ma Jun, a CCP banking official, called for mobilizing private capital to “avoid funding activities” that damage nature.
“Basically, what Ma Jun is saying is that companies that do not comply with the globalist agenda will be cut off from borrowing,” Graceffo wrote.