President Joe Biden signed an executive order on Sept. 15 that bolsters a regulatory panel’s ability to scrutinize and act on foreign investments in areas that are deemed critical for the U.S. economy.
While the order doesn’t directly mention the Chinese regime, it comes amid growing concern among U.S. officials about China’s investments in the U.S. technology sector and other industries. It tells the federal Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) to review cases involving “microelectronics, artificial intelligence, biotechnology and biomanufacturing, quantum computing, advanced clean energy, and climate adaptation technologies.”
The CFIUS interagency group is tasked with reviewing deals and mergers involving foreign people and entities. The committee sends its findings and a recommendation to the president, who has the power to suspend or prohibit a deal.
The committee includes members of the departments of State, Defense, Justice, Commerce, Energy, and Homeland Security and is led by the Treasury secretary. It sends its findings and a recommendation to the president, who has the power to suspend or prohibit a deal.
“Data is an increasingly powerful tool for the surveillance, tracing, tracking, and targeting of individuals or groups of individuals, with potentially adverse impacts on national security,” the order said, saying that the committee has to now “consider whether a covered transaction involves a U.S. business with access to U.S. persons’ sensitive data, and whether the foreign investor has, or the parties to whom the foreign investor has ties, have sought or have the ability to exploit such information.”
In recent years, lawmakers have expressed concern that Chinese companies have exploited areas in U.S. law to gain access to sensitive technology or steal intellectual property.
Meanwhile, an annual Treasury Department report released in August showed Chinese investors more than doubled the number of applications they filed in 2021 seeking U.S. regulatory clearance for proposed deals.