The Chinese military is purchasing semiconductors designed by U.S. companies and manufactured in Taiwan and South Korea to fuel its advancements in artificial intelligence (AI), according to a new report.
Through an analysis of 66,000 public contracts issued by the PLA, the authors of the report found just 24 that dealt with the purchase of the types of high-end chips used for AI applications, the vast majority of which were American designs.
“Despite more aggressive efforts by the Trump and Biden administrations to limit technology exports to the Chinese military, the PLA is placing orders for AI chips designed by U.S. companies and manufactured in Taiwan and South Korea,” the report said.
In pursuit of that goal, the PLA has sought to greatly expand and enhance its AI capabilities, but its ability to train its own advanced machine learning systems currently relies on access to top-tier semiconductors designed by U.S. companies, according to the CSET report.
Indeed, of the 97 AI chips explicitly listed for purchase among the PLA contracts, just one originated from China’s Fudan Microelectronics, and that one was a clone of a U.S. design.
“We searched for, but could not find, any records of PLA units or defense state-owned enterprises (SOEs) awarding contracts for Chinese-designed AI chips ... Indeed, while most of the contracts mentioning these firms were for CPUs and other processors, none were for AI chips,” the report said.
The report also sheds light on how China’s communist regime is able to continue to quasi-legally acquire cutting-edge technologies by leveraging front organizations to make purchases on its behalf when it is barred from doing so outright.
Despite that risk, the report notes that the $600 billion global market for semiconductors means that U.S. tech firms are unlikely to be willing to slow the flow of such tech on their own accord.
That’s problematic, given that the U.S. government currently limits its exports based on end-user controls, effectively meaning that it can’t realistically prevent the Chinese military from obtaining high-end chips through a third party.
To that end, the authors of the report suggest that the United States implement more exacting export controls that focus on the physical and technical characteristics of the chips themselves, rather than the chips’ intended applications and end users.
“In each case, PLA units and state-owned defense companies awarded contracts for U.S.-designed chips to Chinese intermediary companies,” the report said.
“Effectively limiting Chinese military progress in AI and other cutting-edge technologies will require the U.S. government to adopt new and creative forms of export control which extend beyond the current focus on visible end-uses and end-users.”
Only through a change in the specifications upon which export controls are built, the report said, could the U.S. adequately contend with the fact that the PLA was an end-user of U.S. semiconductors in everything but name.
“It bears repeating that none of the seven PLA AI chip suppliers identified in this study are named in either the U.S. Entity List or Military End User List,” the report said.