When you think of “Frankenstein,” does opera come to mind? Mary Shelley’s classic novel about a scientist who tries to create life by unnatural means, but ends up creating a monster, is hardly the most musical horror story. However, Los Angeles Opera chose it as the basis of its Off Grand Halloween performance this year. The premiere, which was performed on Oct. 28 and 29, was not an original opera based on the story of Frankenstein’s monster. Instead, it was a live operatic accompaniment to the 1931 Universal film starring Boris Karloff.
This year, the tradition continued with the screening of another Universal horror film, “Frankenstein.” I’ve wanted to attend one of these events for years because of my dual interests in opera and classic film. When I heard about this year’s event, I was curious to see how a talkie would work with live operatic accompaniment, since it has an existing soundtrack of dialogue, sound effects, and some music.
The score was composed and conducted by Michael Shapiro, who opened the program with a short talk about his ideas for the score. He explained that the original film had no score, which was often the case with early talkies, so his composition serves to accompany the beloved classic. The music was brought to life by a small group of LA Orchestra musicians and six LA Opera soloists, five of whom are part of the company’s Domingo-Colburn-Stein Young Artist Program.
As the lights dimmed in the packed theater, a percussive attack on drum and piano began the overture.
It was truly a dramatic experience. The instrumentalists were amazing, as I expected from the LA Opera Orchestra. It’s a tribute to their musicianship how seamlessly they blended to create a unified sound which complemented the action on the screen. Unlike some past performances of this kind, the singers weren’t featured as distinct characters or individual voices. Instead, they created an ambient sound of indistinct voices, sometimes ethereal and sometimes menacing. At times, it was very difficult to hear the unamplified singers seated behind the orchestra, but I believe this was the effect Shapiro wanted.
The music usually remained subdued during the dialogue, but there were intense scenes where the instruments drowned out the actors’ words onscreen. Anticipating this, they screened the film with subtitles, a choice which I questioned at first but appreciated the few times the orchestra swelled to higher decibels than the recorded dialogue. In addition to providing mood music, the score accented onscreen actions, like dirt falling on a coffin or lightening striking. In addition to background music during the film’s normal runtime, the score included an overture and a dirge-like finale which played as the final seconds of the film’s climax played on repeat. Although the burning windmill at the end of the film was a dramatic image, I think it would have been better to just freeze the picture during the extended music instead of replaying the few seconds of footage dozens of times.
“Frankenstein” is a frighteningly believable scenario in the 21st century. Dr. Henry Frankenstein is a scientist who becomes intoxicated with ideas of his own brilliance. He abandons good sense, scientific standards, and even laws of common decency in his pursuit of controlling nature. Instead of using his skills to ease the suffering of mankind and perhaps do some good for the human race, he tries to play God. Such endeavors can never be anything but disastrous, so his experiment takes a ghastly turn when the creature he brought to life proves violent and aggressive. The problem is not the criminal brain his assistant mistakenly stole for the monster but the scientific brain which knows no law but its own will.
Dr. Frankenstein neither has regard for existing human life nor the artificially created life of his monster. He robs graves to compile the body of creation, who he boasts is human but frequently calls “it” and denies all basic rights. The creature is treated like a savage animal, and he quickly learns to behave like a wild beast. Like an animal, the monster is kind and gentle until he is frightened and harassed. It’s only after he’s been taunted and hurt that he turns dangerous, since he views people as a threat. It really is a moral tale which raises questions about human rights and what constitutes a human life. In a world increasingly dominated by test tube babies, artificial intelligence, and the laboratory manufacturing of living organism, where life is a commodity to be manufactured and destroyed, this is a very relevant topic.