A former Fox News executive has condemned the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) efforts to steal U.S. technologies and warned that the regime seeks to use the metaverse to further its authoritarian control of society.
“It’s a race between China and the United States, but China is running full speed, and the United States is hobbling along as though it has a sore leg,” he said. “China is way ahead of the United States in AI research and in the applications of artificial intelligence.”
Moody recently authored the novel “The World We Wish,” which offered a fictional account of the Chinese communist system from his decades of real-world experience as a journalist. The book focuses on his concern about the emergent efforts by major tech companies to create metaverses wherein users can increasingly lead virtual lives.
He said the metaverse could become a new battleground for personal data and freedom, intrinsically tied to the greater Sino–American struggle for next-generation technologies.
“The metaverse would not exist without artificial intelligence,” Moody said. “The metaverse is, so far ... mostly about games that you can play ... but it’s only touching the beginning of [the] potential for the metaverse.
Moody questioned the intentions of CCP leadership in pursuing such a goal and cautioned against how the regime might use control over such a platform to examine and control people’s lives.
“I don’t think China has the best intentions,” he said. “When it comes to supplying things and services to the rest of the world, I think they want to control those things.”
Moody also said the data involved in the metaverse would be of vital importance in the age of informationized warfare.
“We can no longer wage wars simply with warriors,” he said. “We have to have information. We have to have the ability to outmaneuver and outthink an opponent.
“In the world of cyberspace and cyber wars, information is, in fact, the best weapon to have to make sure that you are victorious and your enemy is vanquished.”
He urged viewers to remember that, regardless of the apparent economic benefit of maintaining ties, the CCP is fundamentally an adversary of the United States and seeks to displace it as the lead superpower in the world.