During this hearing, Peiter Zatko, a security executive whom Twitter fired in January, stated that security at the social media platform was lax, and indicated that he and other security personnel at Twitter had received communications about at least one employee of Twitter being an agent of China’s Ministry of State Security, the regime’s top intelligence agency.
Musk has since countersued, alleging Twitter misrepresented the number of bots and spam accounts on the platform. A Delaware judge ruled last week that Musk may include Zatko’s whistleblower claims in his case against Twitter. The matter is set to go to trial in October.
“There is no question that Twitter’s free speech policies, or perhaps more accurately, lack of free speech, has diminished Twitter’s value both financially and in terms of reputation. Twitter has never been very transparent about its procedures and its credibility has taken a hit because of apparent bias and suppression,” Jeffrey McCall, a professor of communications at DePauw University in Greencastle, Indiana, told The Epoch Times.
While in theory, the platform exists as a forum or “town square” where people can discuss and debate issues, Twitter gives the appearance of acting arbitrarily and autocratically in its banning of sources and content that go against its executives’ views and ideologies, McCall and others believe.
“In short, Twitter created a so-called public forum, then tried to manipulate that forum in apparent support of ideological purposes,” McCall continued.
The site’s free speech policies are not the sole reason the Musk deal got in trouble, but rather are part of an escalating series of mishaps that may have caused Musk to have second thoughts as he realized what a poorly managed entity he had proposed to buy.
“The recent whistleblower allegations further suggest an institution that was rather lax in managing fake accounts and subsequent disinformation. It is hardly surprising that Musk wants to terminate his purchase agreement. Twitter just isn’t worth what people once thought it was worth, and the lowered stock price of Twitter in the last year seems to support that notion,” McCall said.
The issue here is not that efforts to promote reasonable community guidelines and standards of discussion and debate are necessarily wrong, but that Twitter has been so inconsistent and biased in its application of vaguely articulated protocols, McCall believes.
“The social media world needs to be refereed, of course, but Twitter and other outlets engage in selective enforcement and with little explanation of how their enforcement mechanisms work,” he added.
Rather than attempting to classify legitimate news stories, like the New York Post’s report on Hunter Biden’s laptop, as out of bounds, and rather than trying to ban opposition political figures like Donald Trump, Twitter would do well to undertake some self-scrutiny in order to understand better why it is flailing, McCall believes.
“Twitter needs to do some looking in the mirror to self-assess how it allowed its brand to diminish. As a private entity, it can manipulate public dialogue however it likes, but the public doesn’t have to respect the organization. To build back some credibility, Twitter needs to be forthcoming about how its past mistakes have happened and explain how it will moderate the platform with more balance,” he added.
McCall’s views reflect a broad consensus among observers of the media and social media scenes. John Pavlik, a professor of journalism and media studies at Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, told the Epoch Times that the recent and ongoing controversies have brought to the forefront questions about how Twitter operates, its reputation, and the status of free speech on the platform. In the end, the controversies may help promote wider clarity about Twitter, but not in the way that the company’s executives might hope.
“Revelations in this regard should help any potential investors make better-informed decisions. That’s a good thing. Understanding more about bots or the extent of automated accounts or tweets, for example, is a valuable bit of information,” Pavlik said.
As for the Musk litigation and the status of the envisioned merger, Twitter’s troubles are far from over, he suggested.
“I am not sure if the curbs on free speech and calls for transparency of operations will damage Twitter’s credibility, because these measures are geared toward ensuring a more robust and less toxic environment. In the long run, they may indeed improve the quality of discourse on the platform and make it more widely respected,” Sundar said.
“However, these curbs do make Twitter a less desirable acquisition target for those who want to convert it into their bully pulpit and let loose their own version of the truth, laden with exaggerations and misinformation,” he added.
The myriad issues around free speech on the platform and the conflicting regulatory regimes of Europe and other parts of the world may have proved slightly overwhelming to Musk and pushed him to have second thoughts about closing the deal, Sundar argued.
“It appears that Musk did not understand the full scope of Twitter’s operations or challenges when he made the initial bid. As he finds out more, he is realizing that Twitter is not a free-for-all, but there are rules and policies that have to be followed and more restrictive ones coming in the future, especially from Europe. If he doesn’t play ball with regulators in other parts of the world, Twitter’s market share will dwindle rapidly. He has probably decided it’s not worth the hassle,” Sundar said.