Digging up historical artifacts is always fascinating, particularly when those artifacts are tied to a thrilling event like Shackleton’s shipwreck and subsequent harrowing trek across miles of frozen Antarctica. But this discovery turns up more than just artifacts. It also brings reminders of the men involved with the event—a type of man that is quickly becoming extinct in our modern culture.
Following the discovery of the ship, I saw the clipping below, posted on social media. I was familiar with the little want ad that Shackleton had run when looking for comrades to accompany him on his expedition, but I looked at it more closely this time, pondering what a foreign concept each of these requirements is today, not only for men but for women also.
Think about how today’s young people would respond to this ad. The Q&A would probably shake out like this:
This is all tongue-in-cheek, of course, but sadly, such cheekiness isn’t all that far off from reality.
Shackleton’s ship was named Endurance, which, according to Webster’s dictionary, is “the ability to withstand hardship or adversity” and especially “the ability to sustain a prolonged stressful effort or activity.” A good many of us have become soft in this decadent culture of ours. We’re unwilling to take even the risks that life naturally brings—in marriage, in family, in standing for truth—let alone the kind that Shackleton sought; and when difficulties do come, we take the easy way out in our jobs, in our families, in our friendships, and in our communities.
And that’s probably why many of us are also unhappy.
The good news is that times are changing, and the soft lifestyle we’ve grown accustomed to likely won’t be around much longer. How can that be good, you ask? Simple. Those hardships will force us into being more like the courageous, strong, and determined men that weathered the storm with Ernest Shackleton—and like those who crossed the ocean, fought a war for independence, and settled the West in the generations before the men of Endurance.