President Joe Biden wrapped up his South Korea visit by highlighting Hyundai Motor Group’s pledge to invest at least $10 billion in electric vehicles and related technologies in the United States.
The three-day Biden–Yoon summit covered various business and security interests, from supply chains to North Korea.
During the tour, the leaders pledged to strengthen semiconductor alliances among the world’s largest chip-making countries to ease global shortages.
Biden reaffirmed the U.S. extended deterrence commitment to South Korea “using the full range of U.S. defense capabilities, including nuclear, conventional, and missile defense capabilities,” amid growing nuclear and missile threats from North Korea.
“Both leaders agree to initiate discussions to expand the scope and scale of combined military exercises and training on and around the Korean Peninsula,” the statement reads.
In addition, Biden and Yoon seek to deepen the countries’ strategic economic and technology partnership as well as energy security. The two leaders agree to “protect and promote critical and emerging technologies, including leading-edge semiconductors, eco-friendly EV batteries, Artificial Intelligence, quantum technology, biotechnology, biomanufacturing, and autonomous robotics.”
The combined sales of Hyundai Motor and Kia Corp. in China peaked at 1.79 million cars in 2016, following South Korea’s deployment of THAAD (Terminal High Altitude Area Defense). The move has since triggered a strong boycott of Korean products by China, resulting in declining sales, with the sales number dropping below 500,000 last year.
THAAD is a U.S.-designed and manufactured anti-missile system installed in South Korea between 2016 and 2017 to defend against North Korea’s missile build-up. However, the regime in Beijing has insisted that the deployment of THAAD affects China’s security and has since adopted a series of countermeasures against South Korea.
Last October, South Korean tech conglomerate SK Group announced its pledge to invest $52 billion in the United States by 2030, following the moves of many South Korean tech giants that are shifting supply chain investment to the United States.