The UK’s Prime Minister Rishi Sunak on Monday faced pressure to increase immigration to plug labour shortages in the UK.
Attending the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) annual conference in Birmingham, Sunak was urged to agree on a “new deal” on immigration, allowing more skilled workers to enter the UK on fixed-term visas.
The prime minister said the end of free movement of labour following the UK’s exit of the European Union was partly to “rebuild public consent” in the UK’s immigration system, vowing to tackle illegal immigration to build up trust for “a system that allows businesses to access the best and brightest from around the world.”
Danker argued that the economically inactive won’t be back into the labour market soon owing to the long NHS backlog and that it’s “unrealistic” to plug the gap with automation.
Danker called for a “new deal on immigration” that allows “economic migration in the areas where we aren’t going to get the people and skills at home anytime soon.”
“In return, we make those visas fixed term,” he said, adding that the shortage occupation list should not only go to the immigration minister, but also to the education secretary and businesses.
“Part of the reason we ended free movement of labour was to rebuild public consent in our immigration system,” he said.
“If we’re going to have a system that allows businesses to access the best and brightest from around the world, we need to do more to give the British people trust and confidence that the system works and is fair. That means tackling illegal migration,” Sunak said, adding, “And that’s what I’m determined to do.”
Sunak said the government is launching a a programme to identify and attract the world’s top 100 young talents on artificial intelligence, saying the UK “cannot allow the world’s top AI talent to be drawn to America or China.”
Pressed by the BBC on whether he will loosen immigration rules, Sunak said he’s “determined to reduce the number of illegal migrants.”
“And if we’re doing that, then I do believe that we can and it’s right to ensure that the United Kingdom is a beacon for the world’s best and brightest,” he added.