Countering Chinese communist propaganda is an imperative for the United States and others.
Mao’s original propaganda focus was domestic in order to consolidate the CCP’s control of the government and all aspects of Chinese life. As China began to turn outward after Mao’s death in 1976, CCP propaganda targeted at influencing foreigners was added to the mix.
There are a number of important CCP bureaucracies that control all Chinese media. The main organization is the Publicity Department of the Central Committee of the CCP, also known as the Central Propaganda Department (CCPPD), which monitors all media personnel and controls via licensing constraints the content of print and visual media in all Chinese media. The CCPPD oversees the National Radio and Television Administration (NRTA), which controls and issues mandatory guidelines for media content for all state-owned enterprises engaged in television and radio, and the General Administration of Press and Publication, which regulates and distributes news, print, and internet publications in China.
Ironically, SCIO is also called the “Central Office of Foreign Propaganda.”
The big lie entails a claim that is so preposterous as to be virtually unbelievable by rational people. An example of this is the continuing CCP claim that the SARS-CoV-2 virus originated outside China, with the corollary that any reference to the virus as the “China virus” is racist.
Small lies are woven in a virtual web to reinforce the given big lie. In this example, small lies include quoting “friendly foreigners” (especially in Western media) who support the discredited zoonotic theory of the virus’s origin, blame-shifting to other countries (particularly the United States), emphasizing the supposed success of China’s “zero-COVID” policy, using CCP-controlled international entities such as the World Health Organization to advance the CCP’s virus narrative, among other things.
The big lie and its reinforcing small lies are repeated endlessly without deviation—as repetition is a key feature of making propaganda work. The more times the message is repeated, the more likely it becomes accepted truth over time—particularly when the pushback is diffuse or nonexistent. Hold that thought!
Other CCP propaganda methods are technical in nature: manipulation of video, exploitation of fake social media accounts, and the use of artificial intelligence to manage networks of social media bots and trolls that reinforce the CCP’s narratives.
Another key CCP propaganda method is to bastardize commonly understood Western terminology in order to convey a false sense of legitimacy in the Chinese characterization of the terms. Chinese state-run media—as well as Xi and his diplomatic corps—all frequently use the phrase “with Chinese characteristics” to obfuscate and corrupt the real meaning of the words they bleat in order to convince the world that the CCP is “benign.”