As some of us watch the Winter Olympics in Beijing (and some of us don’t), the most important games are being played every day in America’s universities, corporate labs, and research institutions.
That’s where China is capturing the gold that really matters.
As bad as that sounds—and it’s impossible to overstate the risk—China’s hypersonic missile program is just the tip of the technology iceberg.
The Chinese regime’s technology theft is so expansive that it reaches into virtually every area of scientific inquiry, including artificial intelligence (AI), bioengineering, robotics, nanotechnology, and other next generation science.
In fact, the LinkedIn, the preferred social media channel for business professionals, has been a major source of technological data gathering for the CCP.
But the United States is just one of many Western nations to be targeted by the CCP via LinkedIn.
For instance, in 2017 and 2018 respectively, Germany and France both detected thousands of LinkedIn targeting efforts into offering interviews to non-existent jobs in order to gather technological data and processes from the interviewees.
This one program has enabled China to steal, bribe, and/or recruit the very smartest technological and bioengineering ideas and minds from America and bring them to China.
The logic is as simple as it is devastating.
Why go through the entire long, expensive, and difficult process of developing technology when you can just steal it, especially if you can buy the scientists who are developing new scientific breakthroughs as they’re creating them?
In December 2021, Lieber was found guilty of concealing his affiliation with the WUT and his participation in the Thousand Talents Plan.
But there are a few challenges, to say the least. The first is defining the problem. The Department of Justice has no definition of what constitutes a “China Initiative” case.
Perhaps, that’s why only about one-quarter of cases have led to convictions. It’s rather difficult to identify a problem if you can’t clearly define it. Not a good start.
Then, there’s the shifting focus of the initiative. Instead of concentrating on economic espionage, the focus has shifted to investigating academics charged with breaching “research integrity” in one way or another.
Different problem, but a similar outcome.
A third challenge is the delicate issue of race. Almost 90 percent of all those charged with theft, espionage, or other acts aimed at technology or information exfiltration are ethnically Chinese.
In these bizarrely woke times, what politician wants to be accused of racial bias—or worse—outright racism?
No administration, that’s for certain.
But still, just a little perspective and common sense is all that’s required to resolve this correctly. It’s likely a safe bet that the vast majority of Chinese students coming from China are Chinese, just as most Nazi spies were likely of German heritage.
Who would’ve imagined?