With the 20th congress of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) starting on Oct.16, Xi Jinping’s re-election seems to be a given. In the face of a deteriorating economy, Xi’s government may go ahead with “one state-owned enterprise for one industry” and “national unified market,” an upgraded model of the planned economy, experts say.
Wen defined “people’s economy” as autonomy, that is: the economy is related to state sovereignty and cannot be monopolized by foreign capital; locality, revenue from resource exploring fosters local sustainable development; integration, the purpose of enterprises is not to make profits, but to achieve autonomy and locality; and universal ownership that eliminates privatization.
The “people’s economy theory immediately aroused doubts and criticism from the financial sector and public opinion. For now, all opposition to the “people’s economy” within China has been censored by internet censors.
Xiang Songzuo, a famous economist, denounced Wen’s theory as “absurd” on his Weibo account, questioning “isn’t the so-called autonomy a closure of the country? Does it deny foreign-invested enterprises and joint ventures alike? Isn’t the so-called locality just confining [China] to a prison?”
Xiang’s words stirred up the general resonance and were widely forwarded even though it was censored repeatedly, and circulated by many media outside China like Radio Free Asia.
“This is version 2.0-like of China’s planned economy, an enhanced, upgraded version of the planned economy.” Xie Tian, a professor of marketing at the Aiken School of Business at the University of South Carolina, told The Epoch Times.
Terms like seclusion, self-sufficiency, large social enterprises, and people’s communes, characterized the planned economy introduced by the first generation of CCP leaders during the 1950s to 1970s. The extremely centralized system produced The Great Leap Forward, an economic and social campaign that pursued “national steel-making surpassing the UK and the U.S.” It eventually resulted in the Great Famine of 1958 to 1962, with an estimated 15 to 55 million starvation deaths.
Public fears that the regime could return to the old path of planned economy, are shown in online comments, such as, “unifying market means that everything could be decided by the central government” and “market prices, commodity supply, and distribution channels could be unified, that would be a national supply and marketing agency and unified purchase and distribution.”
According to Ji Da, a China expert in the United States, the Communist Party’s goal of “unifying the market” is to control resources, manipulate prices, and rule the country through the establishment of mega-central enterprises in various industries.
Central enterprises are state-owned and funded by the State Council or the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, wholly owned or controlled by state-owned capital, and managed directly by the central government or entrusted to central ministries.
The real estate industry is a prominent case in the reforms. On Aug. 20, 2020, the Ministry of Housing and Construction and the Central Bank held a seminar on key real estate enterprises, and limited financing for property developers. In the pilot program, 12 key real estate enterprises were included. The program was pushed to the whole industry on Jan. 1, 2021.
Lacking funding to build houses, the real estate sector encountered a setback, with property developers as influential as Evergrande, Sunac, and Central China Real Estate Limited struggling to survive.
In the steel industry, China Baowu Steel Group has merged and reorganized seven or eight iron and steel companies that are spread in Wuhan, Hubei Province; Maanshan, Anhui Province; Shaoguan, Guangdong Province; Taiyuan, Shanxi Province; and Chongqing and Xinjiang forming a “steel carrier fleet.” After the integration, the tax revenue went directly to the central government, while settlement of the many layoffs was left to the local government.
In addition, the public budgets of 31 provinces and autonomous regions showed a deficit in the first half of this year due to the stringent dynamic Zero-COVID policy. Many local governments have been experiencing financial difficulties and debts that exceed the risk alert line.
Shi Shan, a qualified current affairs expert, told The Epoch Times that the moves are efforts of the CCP to break local protection, cut power to local governments, and transfer economic management and tax revenue directly to the central government in a bid to realize its so-called “centralized power to do big things.”
Shi pointed out that, contrary to the second CCP leader, Deng Xiaoping, transferring power to local governments and opening up the market economy in an economic reform, Xi is eager to take back power through centralization and cutting local power.
Shi said this means that China’s economic policy will completely change direction and that a “planned economy 2.0” is on the horizon.
In December 2021, the State Council issued a notice about the “14th Five-Year Plan” for the development of the digital economy that called for an accelerated penetration of digital technology into all areas of economic, social, and industrial development.
In this regard, Ji said that the CCP is trying to monopolize the Chinese market through “one enterprise for one industry” to influence the world, and this will be the main tone of the CCP’s political and economic strategy after the 20th congress.