Republican lawmakers on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence launched a probe on the potential Chinese ownership and influence on business media outlet Forbes, which is planning to go public via a merger with a publicly traded special purpose acquisition company (SPAC).
Then-U.S. Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) initiated the investigation in late 2021 after Forbes’s announcement of its listing plans in August.
In a letter dated Nov. 23, 2021, Nunes asked Forbes to “assist our investigation related to China’s malign influence activities against U.S. Corporations.”
“The PRC’s control over Chinese industry and investment creates a non-market influence on global commerce,” the letter, obtained by The Epoch Times, stated, referring to the regime’s official name, the People’s Republic of China.
“Enabling the acquisition, transfer, and theft of U.S. innovation, the PRC’s grip on business is leveraged as a powerful platform for malign influence.”
Forbes’s merger at issue is with Magnum Opus Acquisition Ltd. (NYSE: OPA), a Hong Kong-based SPAC, a blank-check company that has no operations but enables its acquisition target to go public. The deal is evaluated at $630 million, and Forbes will go public under the ticker symbol of FRBS.
Magnum Opus initially announced that the merger would be complete by the first quarter. But on March 22, the company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to extend the deadline to May 31.
Rep. Mike Turner (R-Ohio), who succeeded Nunes as the committee’s ranking GOP member, took over the investigation. Turner’s office didn’t respond by press time to a request by The Epoch Times for an update. The Washington Times first reported on the probe.
In Forbes’s response letter on Dec. 16, 2021, also seen by The Epoch Times, the company’s attorney denied any knowledge of investment from the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) or any China-based entities. He also denied any such entities’ influence on Forbes’s editorial and commercial operations or anyone at Forbes having met with the Chinese State Council Information Office, a central agency charged with foreign propaganda.
Yet the China or Hong Kong background of many players in the merger has stoked concerns about potential CCP influence in the deal, including its impact on free speech at the business publication.
Later on, Forbes announced on Feb. 10 that Binance—the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange—would take the place of half the existing PIPE investors and invest $200 million in the Magnum Opus’s acquisition of Forbes. Upon successful completion of the merger, Binance’s chief communications officer Patrick Hillmann and Bill Chin, head of Binance Labs, the incubator arm of Binance, will join Forbes’s board.
Forbes is currently majority-owned by Hong Kong-based Integrated Whale Media Investments (IWM). In September 2014, IWM bought a 95 percent stake in Forbes in a deal valued at $475 million, while the remaining 5 percent belonged to the Forbes family.
Magnum Opus didn’t reply by press time to Epoch Times’ request for comment.
Insiders at Forbes have expressed concern about Chinese influence in the deal, according to The Daily Mail, as well as fears that the publication will not be able to freely cover topics relating to China after the merger.
A Forbes spokesperson told The Epoch Times in an email that the company “is and always will be fiercely independent, and any suggestion that the Chinese or any other government would have any influence is completely unfounded.”
Binance in October delisted the Chinese yuan from its trading platform in response to the CCP’s crackdown on cryptocurrencies.
Forbes Chief Executive Officer Mike Federle said in the same statement that the company would become a leader in the field by tapping into Binance’s digital infrastructure and blockchain technology.
He says the company’s 10-year digital transformation built an audience of 150 million unique monthly users—114 million from the United States, according to the company’s website—across the Forbes ecosystem.
Since 2021, Binance has met with licensing challenges in Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, Canada, Singapore, Norway, and Hong Kong. It has also been under investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and Internal Revenue Service for potential illegal transactions on the platform, and the SEC regarding disclosure to customers.