Marxist revolutions failed in advanced capitalist countries because people valued their traditional culture, institutions, and values, according to James Lindsay, bestselling author and founder of New Discourses.
Marx published his “Communist Manifesto” around the mid-19th century but the first communist revolution succeeded only about 70 years later in 1917 in Russia.
“Nowhere in the developed capitalist societies was this happening, but you have peasant Russia which is an aristocratic mode still that’s able to be flipped over by the Bolsheviks,” Lindsay said.
“Same thing happened later in China. China was not an industrial center, it was not an advanced capitalist society, it was a peasant society.”
The Marxists of the time in the 1910s, 20s, and 30s were examining the situation trying to figure out why Marx’s doctrine failed, Lindsay continued.
They realized that it was the culture that was preventing Marx’s theory from being accepted and successfully implemented in these advanced capitalist societies, Lindsay explained.
Mao Zedong, a CCP leader who ruled communist China from its inception until his death in 1976, was able to undermine the existing proud culture of the Chinese, the author said.
Marxist thinkers came to understand that people considered their Western culture or their Chinese culture with their values sets as being fairly good, and despite being aware of some of its imperfections, did not want to overthrow it, he continued.
“[Marxists] realize that if you can undermine the existing culture and create a break from the existing culture and demonize the existing culture, then you can especially get the younger generations to want to pick up with a whole new program. And that’s the way that you can affect what they call a cultural revolution.”
“Mao called it destroying the four olds,” Lindsay said.
“So you have to poison the institutions.” For example, in America, “you have to make people think all the founding of America was rooted in racism … and that racism is still the organizing principle of the society today,” Lindsay said. This is why the 1619 Project was launched, he added.
After destroying the old culture, Marxists have to get “the young generation to want to grow up to be a new man in a new society that understands that we aren’t individuals at all,” Lindsay said.
The goal is to have people perceive their “true nature as a social collective, or as a communist kind of person,” he pointed out.
Critical race theory (CRT) takes this whole set of great values that have successfully shaped the West such as punctuality, hard work, Judeo-Christian values of right and wrong transmitted from one generation to the next, and characterize them as toxic whiteness, the author said.
“They put it into a scapegoat bucket and they just relentlessly criticize it until people are ashamed to be associated with it.”
Lindsay cited two of the prominent critical theorists of the Frankfurt School, Max Horkheimer and Theodor Adorno, who said they could not describe a good or positive society but could criticize an existing society.
Once the culture is made “sufficiently toxic, America [becomes] a bad word, we can’t talk about Christopher Columbus ... we have to feel a little bit ashamed if we bring up Thomas Jefferson because we know he held slaves,” Marxists try to make people break off from the old culture, Lindsay said.
Then campaigns such as the “Year Zero” carried out by Cambodia’s Khmer Rouge communist regime in the 1970s or Mao’s campaign to eradicate “four olds” can commence.
Lindsay said that the idea of a “Great Reset,” which involves “a whole new culture with a whole new model ... [such as] a new economic model like stakeholder capitalism,” also requires breaking off from the old culture.
“The changes we have already seen in response to COVID-19 prove that a reset of our economic and social foundations is possible,” Schwab said in June 2020. “The pandemic represents a rare but narrow window of opportunity to reflect, reimagine, and reset our world.”
“The world is out there and then we are receiving information about the world via our senses, and that we understand the world and make our models of the world as best we can and try to work out the details and get things right. But the world itself is something that we must be humbled before. That’s the objective standpoint.
“The subjective standpoint sees it the other way around, that the world is actually that which we create in our consciousness.”
“The fact that that assignment then brings with it all of these restrictions upon how you’re supposed to present, how you’re supposed to act, who you’re supposed to hook up with, or have sex with, or marry, or whatever—all of that is enormous oppression upon you,” Lindsay described how these schools view gender identity.
“[Queer theory] explicitly says that the goal is not to create stable LGBT identities. It is, in fact, to create destabilized identities that are under absolutely no restrictions or no moral shackles of any kind.”
According to these theories, the ideas of a stable, monogamous relationship to raise the children, that children are supposed to be regarded as innocent and therefore non-sexualized, are just fictions that oppress people and have been created by people to maintain this system, so people need to liberate themselves from these artificial social relations and self-imposed limits, the author said.