A few days later, on June 6, trading house Jane Street also filed its case against the exchange for $15.34 million.
Both judicial review claims have similar messages. Elliott said the London Metal Exchange (LME) should not have halted trading and erased deals after prices more than doubled to over $100,000 per metric ton in a matter of hours on March 8. It said that LME’s trading suspension and trades cancellation “constituted a violation of [its] human rights,” adding that the act was unreasonable and irrational.
However, LME responded by denying the suit’s merit.
“The LME management is of the view that the claim is without merit, and the LME will contest it vigorously,” Hong Kong Exchange and Clearing (HKEX) commented on both suits.
The hedge fund group, representing more than 150 member firms, expressed serious concerns in its complaint about how LME’s actions impacted market participants, including its member firms.
HKEX purchased all ordinary shares of LME on December 6, 2012, resulting in the resignations of 10 of the 12 directors. Then Chief Executive of HKEX Charles Li described the acquisition as “a once-in-a-century opportunity.”
But ahead of Tsingshan falling into a dilemma of delivery defaults, LME announced on March 8 that it would suspend nickel trading and cancel all nickel trades for the day, followed by a continuous halt in nickel dealing until March 11.
This is a rare suspension of metal trading on the LME the last of which occurred with tin in 1985.
Mark Thompson, the executive vice-chairman of the British mining company Tungsten West Ltd, wrote on Twitter on March 8 that his best guess was that Tsingshan’s marked-to-market loss would top $12 billion.
In addition, LME started applying daily price limits—offering Tsingshan peace of mind with no soaring nickel prices similar to March 8.
Ng said that the LME halted the nickel market and cancelled the nickel contracts to prevent Tsingshan from falling into bankruptcy. Behind the scenes, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) instructed the LME to rescue Tsingshan, so China could still control the nickel mines in Indonesia.
Ng said: ”Compared with HKEX, Tsingshan is a more prominent enterprise. And the CCP can manipulate international nickel mines through Tsingshan—Tsingshan is higher than the HKEX on CCP’s list of priorities.”
The HKEX had to follow Beijing’s instructions, Ng added, even though the cancellation of nickel contracts could cost the HKEX its credibility and business.
The Nickel Industries’s announcement also stated that Tsingshan had assurance that business was operating as usual and they had no intention of selling any shares. Additionally, the operations at collaborated projects, Hengjaya Nickel and Ranger Nickel in Indonesia, were “unaffected.”
“Today, I received many phone calls, relevant state agencies and leading officers are very supportive,” said Xiang. “Western companies have taken some actions, and we are coordinating actively [to deal with it].”
Ng said that the LME’s blatant disregard of rules was similar to what the CCP did in Hong Kong—pushing through the National Security Law by breaking international treaty obligations it made to maintain Hong Kong’s system for 50 years.
Obsessed by “The East is rising and the West is declining,” Ng said, the CCP is keen to have a louder voice in the global market, such as critical resources and high technology products like artificial intelligence and electric vehicles.
Chinese nickel and stainless steel giant Tsingshan has industrial capacities of nickel metal and crude stainless steel up to 300,000 tons and 10 million tons respectively per year. As the world’s largest nickel and stainless steel producer, Tsingshan said confidently on its website that it “plays a certain role in the industry.”
In his view, the “Demon Nickel” incident will affect the whole market, including Hong Kong’s position as a global financial hub.
Ng commented that HKEX’s reputation definitely has been damaged, but not to the extent of bankruptcy—legal cases could drag on for five to ten years.