The Ontario government has introduced a new science curriculum for Grades 1 to 8, with the focus on “modernization” of course content to incorporate engineering, coding, artificial intelligence, and other skills needed in the present-day economy.
“We’re excited to launch it today as part of a broader modernization and overhaul the Ontario curriculum to finally align what we teach your kids with ... the skills the economy needs,” he said, adding that such “disconnect” between what’s being taught in schools and what employment skills are needed has existed for the past 15 years.
“We didn’t talk about AI in skilled trades, we didn’t teach them how to code in Ontario until our government brought forth these types of reforms. So we are going where the puck is going in the sense of with the competencies and skills young people need to succeed, and we’re just trying to do everything possible to give these students, your children, a competitive advantage when they graduate.”
The updated curriculum is set to take effect for the upcoming 2022–23 school year.
Ontario’s elementary science and technology curriculum was last updated in 2007, while the Grade 9 course was last updated in 2008. During this period, significant scientific and technological innovations have emerged to transform the global economy, Lecce said.
“Think about all the changes and emerging technologies we have seen, such as the development of smartphones, self-driving vehicles, and other forms of artificial intelligence,” he said.
“As the economy changes, so must our curriculum to ensure students are learning the skills they need to help them gain access to good-paying jobs, to ensure they have a competitive advantage upon their graduation here in Ontario.”
As part of the change, students can expect to learn to apply science, technology, engineering, and mathematics—dubbed as STEM—with “real-world connections” in their careers and skilled trades.
The new STEM course will include mandatory coding lessons from Grades 1 to 9.
Students will also learn about emerging technologies such as robotics and artificial intelligence, and their increased application in modern-day society, including facial recognition, autonomous vehicles, drones, and search engines.
“Students will now explore how science relates to careers in the skilled trades and how emerging and new technologies impact these careers,” the government said.
“These new learning expectations within the curriculum will ensure Ontario’s students are at the forefront of emerging innovation, thought, and able to compete in the global economy.”