“The huge pop we are all hearing is the global opening of champagne bottles celebrating Fauci’s departure,” attorney Thomas Renz told The Epoch Times.
Renz is the lead attorney in several major cases brought against the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Defense, the Biden administration, and Fauci himself; regarding forced vaccine mandates, the COVID-19 lockdowns, mask mandates, business closures, alleged hospital negligence, vaccine injuries to military personnel and civilians, and efforts to censor the truth about COVID-19.
Fauci himself has flip-flopped numerous times on the effectiveness of wearing masks. Democrat politicians who imposed mask mandates, lockdowns, quarantines, and rules barring indoor personal-care services were frequently caught doing precisely what they forbade others to do.
With the cumulative effect of the flip-flopping, double standards, and false information, Renz believes “the public is starting to wake up.”
“They can no longer keep telling us that everything is a crisis,” Renz said. “They can’t say: ‘Hey, we’ve got a new monkeypox pandemic and we need to declare a new emergency. So what if there’s only about 7,500 people affected nationwide.’”
“Pfizer can buy as many commercials ... as they want but you can’t lie to people about what they’re seeing with their own eyes. People are waking up. You only have to see a lie once before you have suspicions about the people telling the lies.
“Fauci has gotten nothing but praise and pats on the back for his work; but people like me, Peter McCullough, Peter Corey, and Robert Malone, we’ve been attacked brutally and endlessly for trying to speak up about our concerns. In the meantime, Anthony Fauci has lied over and over again.”
White Coat Waste Project reported in October 2021: “Our investigators show that [Dr. Anthony] Fauci’s NIH division shipped part of a $375,800 grant to a lab in Tunisia to drug beagles and lock their heads in mesh cages filled with hungry sand flies so that the insects could eat them alive.” It has also been reported that some of the dogs had their vocal cords cut so workers would not have to listen to their anguished cries of pain.
“You’ve got a guy who has lied and lied about the safety and efficacy of vaccines for two years now. You can tell when he’s lying because his mouth is open. What kind of a person would advocate for babies to get an experimental shot in light of the fact that no healthy children have died from COVID-19? But you have this guy pushing these vaccines on babies. What does this tell you about his character?”
The side effects include such things as Guillain-Barré Syndrome, stroke, acute myocardial infarction (heart attack), anaphylaxis, autoimmune disease, and death.
“They called them ‘adverse events of special interest,’ so they wouldn’t have to list them as side effects,” Renz explained. “If anybody can explain to me the difference between ‘adverse events of special interest’ and a ’side effect,' I would love for them to do so because I don’t know what the difference is.”
Health Feedback, a fact-checking website known to attack any claims critical of the COVID vaccines, also attacked anyone who tried to attribute any deaths to the vaccine or tried to imply that the “adverse events reported following vaccination” demonstrated “that the vaccine caused the events or is unsafe,” Renz said.
“The FDA knew about the side effects and intentionally tried to cover it up. Fauci knew this! There’s no way he didn’t know this!”