Apple needs to be held accountable for obstructing Chinese citizens from using certain iPhone functions to talk, text, and share content ahead of the massive protests against Beijing’s harsh Zero-COVID policies, said Bradley Thayer, the director of China policy at the Center for Security Policy.
The update incorporated a change that affected only China-based users, and provided just a 10-minute window in which to receive messages from others, where formerly a setting was available that allowed messages to come in from anybody for an indefinite amount of time. The imposition of this rule has obviously blunted protestors’ ability to coordinate and share highly time-sensitive information with one another about their locations and activities, as well as those of security forces rounding up protesters.
“By modifying the iPhone’s AirDrop feature, it only shows that [CEO] Tim Cook is working with [Chinese Chairman] Xi Jinping. And that should be unacceptable for all freedom loving people around the world. And there has to be an account for that decision by Apple to generate the support for Xi Jinping at that critical time, where you might have had a movement continue,” Thayer, a contributor to The Epoch Times said.
“What might it have been if AirDrop had been enabled fully? So it might have been able to be an even greater movement than what we witnessed in the last 14 days,” he added.
“But Google and others, many other tech firms, of course, and then manufacturing firms, too work hand in glove with the Chinese regime, and for decades, to suppress human rights within China, and to legitimize the Chinese Communist Party, when in fact, it should be delegitimized,” he said.
“So we should expect that the actions of those entities, Apple in particular, is a point that perhaps would be a pivot point for tech firms operating in China. As you know, of course, Apple is attempting, at least to some degree, to get out of China,” Thayer said.
Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) wrote a letter to Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm on Dec 7, claiming that the agency’s act “undermines and endangers our national security.
The expert characterized the reliance on batteries produced in China as “imprudent.”
“It’s very dangerous, as we’ve witnessed in so many other areas, pharmaceuticals, personal protective equipment (PPE), of course, that we witnessed at the outset of the pandemic,” he said.
For that reason, Thayer suggested action be taken to disengage from China’s solar panel industry.
“The Biden administration and other Western leaders need to take action here to draw that away. These batteries, essentially, the solar panels can be manufactured elsewhere. And there should be great encouragement of firms to withdraw from China and go elsewhere to make those goods,” he said.
In his opinion, calling attention to human rights abuses in China could also play a role.