China launched a new satellite designed for “Earth observation” on April 7.
A more intentional reading of these reports, however, reveals an alarming conclusion. Beneath the altruistic verbiage about environmental protection and calamity prevention, it is easier to interpret the real implications of China’s capacity for enhanced satellite imaging.
The ability to “[provide] operational application data support for China’s marine development” will equate to enhanced imaging capabilities for the PLA Navy to extend its influence into disputed territories. This is especially true of the island-building initiatives that Beijing has undergone in the South China Sea since 2014.
By claiming that the artificial landmasses constitute an extension of Chinese territorial sovereignty, the regime can then argue that those same “maritime rights and interests” actually encompass much more than they otherwise would. Consider that most of the islands are about 1,000 miles south of China’s southernmost tip on Hainan Island.
This provides new capabilities for “anti-ship and anti-aircraft missile systems, laser and jamming equipment and fighter jets,” according to a top U.S. military commander.
This arms sale—in which Raytheon was the prime defense contractor—is the third arms sale between Taiwan and the Biden administration.
The analysis initially states that the alliance has “made progress developing quantum technologies, artificial intelligence, and undersea capabilities.”
Beijing’s drive for technological innovation in land and sea mapping is taking place in the context of the ongoing competition for enhanced military capabilities in the South China Sea.
The CCP is not touting its increased capacity for in-depth satellite image-based analysis because it wants to protect the ecological environment in the region; instead, it is explicitly stating that its increased ability to produce and utilize SARs has significant strategic ramifications for any would-be challengers to its territorial claims.
As the United States continues to commit significant financial and material assets (not to mention human capital) to the region, it must remain aware of the advances that China is making.
Washington has placed a large bet on its ability to promote technological innovation and advanced weapons development. Beijing seems to be trying to match it with the launch of its new satellite.