In the video above, I discuss the inevitability of coming food and energy crises, and how to prepare for them, on the Children’s Health Defense “Good Morning CHD” program. As I mention in that interview, it seems clear that these crises are being fabricated according to a predetermined plan, just as the COVID pandemic plan was foretold during Event 201.
The global technocratic cabal responsible for these plans don’t actually hide their plans. They announce them in various ways in advance. Tabletop crisis exercises are one of them. The publishing of white papers is another.
A deadly viral pandemic. Devastating economic effects. International mobility coming to a screeching halt, debilitating industries, tourism and global supply chains. “Even locally, normally bustling shops and office buildings sat empty for months, devoid of both employees and customers,” the document reads.
“In the absence of official containment protocols,” the virus spread like wildfire. In this narrative, the U.S. administration’s failure to place strict travel restrictions on its citizens proved to be a fatal flaw, as it allowed the virus to spread past its borders. China, on the other hand, fared particularly well due to its rapid imposition of universal quarantines of all citizens, which proved effective for curbing the spread of the virus.
Many other nations where leaders “flexed their authority” and imposed severe restrictions on their citizens — “from the mandatory wearing of face masks to body-temperature checks at the entries of communal spaces like train stations and supermarkets” — also fared well.
It also described the necessary infrastructure for vaccination tracking across the board, for all vaccines, not just the COVID jabs, and laid the foundation for medical monitoring in general.
It basically describes how they intend to seize control of the food supply and the supply chain under the guise of “equity,” “fairness” and “environmental protection.”
One key to this enterprise is data collection. They want to collect data on everyone’s spending and eating habits, and to facilitate that data collection, they want to shift everything into an online environment, including education, medicine and the buying of food.
Schwab coined the term “the Fourth Industrial Revolution,” which is really just another way of saying “the transhumanist revolution.” In a nutshell, it refers to the integration and takeover of artificial intelligence, robotics, and the merger of man with machine, which will inevitably trigger dramatic societal changes.
People displaced and made useless by robots and/or augmented humans will need some sort of stipend to live on, and a roof over their head.
They’ve been moving the proverbial chess pieces around the global chess board for decades to bring about the scenario we’re currently in, with the destruction and collapse of supply chains, food production, infrastructure and economies. They have to bring all the old systems down in order to declare them obsolete, so they can then introduce their new slave systems.
It now looks as though food shortages will begin toward the end of 2022. But even if it takes longer than that for things to fall apart, inflation will drive prices skyward, so buying extra right now can save you money later.
The key to making this work is to have a backup power supply, as there is a high likelihood the grid will go down and you will lose your investment. The most economical way to stock up on meat would be to get ground bison, beef or lamb. Ground meat is less expensive, but more importantly, takes up the least amount of space in your freezer. Avoid pork and chicken due to high linoleic acid content.
Certainly, I encourage you to grow what you can, just be realistic about it and don’t rely on something that has no chance of keeping you alive in a real emergency. One exception is sprouts. Virtually everyone can grow sprouts, even indoors in small spaces, and they provide high-density nutrients that can be harvested in days rather than weeks or months.
Certain crops, such as Moringa and cassava are extremely hardy and drought resistant, requiring almost no attention whatsoever, so they can be good options if you’re just starting out. Moringa is a real superfood, and you can eat the leaves, either fresh or dried, and the seeds, but it really is a subtropical tree that needs a warm climate to do well. You can also grow fresh herbs to spice up your dishes.
Believe the cabal when they’re telling you there will be shortages and mass inflation, and prepare accordingly.
Aside from stocking up on canned or freeze-dried vegetables, fruits and berries, another strategy is to build relationships with local farmers. Start frequenting farmers markets and make connections with people who actually grow the food themselves. I recommend visiting their farm to make sure they’re the real deal, as some merely buy veggies from the same place the grocery stores do and then resell them at the farmers market.
In the interview, I also review other prepping strategies I think are important, such as making sure you’re getting a healthy amount of sun exposure, which is free nutrition (you don’t have to pay for either vitamin D, melatonin or antioxidants supplements if you get enough sun), and getting out of crowded urban areas at all costs. Prepped or not, densely-populated cities are going to be the most dangerous areas on Earth once food, electricity and money get scarce.