We are living in an age where common citizens have access to information and the ability to communicate like never before. Individuals are empowered in ways that would have been unimaginable only a few decades ago. A person can research a subject, make their conclusions, and share those ideas with thousands or even millions of people through social media from the comfort of their home with nothing more than a laptop computer.
Trudeau is claiming he only wants to regulate and control the spread of disinformation, but determining what is or isn’t disinformation can be a very subjective thing. In dictatorships, posting critiques of the government would be considered disinformation. In theocratic states, posting anything critical of the state religion would be considered disinformation. Do we really want to entrust our government with the power to determine the veracity of information?
There are downsides to the barrage of information the internet exposes us to. There is a mountain of disinformation out there and it can be cleverly disguised as fact. Bots have influenced elections, and rumours spread on the internet have fed disorder. Is it the responsibility of the state or the individual to sift through the information to ensure it is accurate?
While it may feel overwhelming at times, individuals must take on the personal responsibility of verifying that the information they have obtained online is accurate.
Trying to control the internet is something like a game of whack-a-mole. For every information source the government can block, three more spring up. Often on foreign soil. Even China and North Korea have a tough time trying to keep information from reaching their citizens, and it’s not for lack of effort. This could be why Trudeau is seeking allies outside of Canada to try and find a way to control online information. The more countries that sign on, the better the chance information can be controlled.
Most of the hazards presented by the internet and social media already have laws applied to them. Posting and sharing images of child pornography is illegal. Spreading hate or trying to incite violence could lead to criminal charges as well. Defamation of individuals or companies can lead to legal consequences. Citizens would be better served if the government dedicated time and energy to preventing and prosecuting those crimes online rather than trying to find ways to prevent what they deem to be misinformation.
We are at an information turning point in modern history. Social media giants have formed and a small number of them dominate online discourse. Those platforms are still evolving and right now are in turmoil as both Facebook’s Meta and Twitter are laying off thousands as they restructure. Will further government meddling and regulation of these platforms make things better?