The use of facial recognition technology by law enforcement without the proper legal safeguards in place threatens privacy, free speech, and peaceful assembly rights protected under the charter, a technology and human rights lawyer says.
“Facial recognition used to identify people in public violates privacy preserved through anonymity in daily life and relies on collecting particularly sensitive biometric data. This would likely induce chilling effects on freedom of expression, such as public protests about injustice.”
Canadian law enforcement has come under fire in recent years over the use of algorithmic policing technologies to conduct their work.
“In our view, a government institution simply cannot collect personal information from a third party agent if that third party’s collection was unlawful in the first place,” Therrien said.
In February 2020, the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada found Clearview’s practices to be “mass surveillance and illegal” under federal and provincial private-sector privacy laws.
“This results in secretive public-private surveillance partnerships that strip criminal defendants of their due process rights and subject all of us to inscrutable layers of mass surveillance.”
Khoo added that as facial recognition technology processes photos from mass police datasets, such as mug shots, it runs the risk of inheriting systemic biases from the records and has led to misidentification in the past. She recommended launching a judicial inquiry into the use of pre-existing police datasets.
“This is to assess the appropriateness of repurposing previously collected personal data for use with facial recognition and other algorithmic policing technologies,” she said.
“The issue is that we don’t have comprehensive regulation or, frankly, a comprehensive approach when it comes to the use of facial recognition technology as a technology ‘soup to nuts’—meaning from the collection of that data through to the actual design of the system, through to the use of that system,” Piovesan told the committee.
She said having a clear understanding of what safeguards should be in place from the beginning to the end stage of data usage—including the collection, storage, assessment, and disclosure requirements of the data—are crucial in protecting the rights of Canadians.
“We have a right to know when aspects of our face, or anything that’s an immutable sensitive data point, is being collected and stored, and potentially used in a way that could be harmful against us,” she said.
Khoo recommended placing a national moratorium on the use of facial recognition technology by law enforcement agencies until safeguards can be studied and put in place.