Doctors stopped being doctors and were just taking evidence from other doctors. Because usually that’s what we do. We talk among each other: “What do you think is working? What are you using?” And if something is working, we usually copy it. We don’t sit down and like, “oh no, it doesn’t work.” It was very surprising that doctors were threatening me, some were threatening to report me to the boards. It became really wild, you know. I got kicked out of many of these doctor groups. I got attacked. I got vilified. It was crazy. That is how we started meeting with, like Dr. Richard Urso, all of us that were just coming out to take care of patients.
I looked for them online. I met Dr. Urso. Also, I saw him on Twitter. So, I looked for his office and I called him. I said, “Hey, Richard, I see that you’re seeing patients.” He was so excited to hear from me. We were just like, holding on to each other—like, “oh my God, finally, there’s somebody else that’s doing this,” you know. So, we started just connecting like that and talking to each other. And that is how we got to meet Dr. Simone Gold, who had done a program in Washington, D.C.—two summits. That was the second summit that we were going to D.C. for. So, they invited me and of course, this was already in July. But prior to July, around May, COVID hit Houston. It hit Texas. It was crazy. People were lining up in front of my clinic as if it was Black Friday. We were taking care of patients—like I had seen over 300 - 400 patients, about 300 something patients. And to me, it didn’t make any sense that people were getting well, and they were allowing people to die. Each time I heard about people dropping dead in New York and all over the country, it just broke my heart. And by May, I realized this was not just a medical battle. This was a propaganda battle. Something sinister was going on.
So, you started to treat, and you started to treat a lot of people, and people started to come to you. How did you sort of deal with this, all of a sudden, this horrible censorship and criticism? You know, for me, I’ve been dealing with that in the integrative medicine world for 20 years, because doctors who treat Lyme disease are very ostracized, and you know, they think we’re quacks. But we’re the ones who are getting people well. So, I’m used to that kind of censoring and censorship, but I suspect that was a new thing for you. So how did you handle that?
Most of the other doctors were still being nice “Mr. Doctor,” but I went off. I just went off. But God, in his infinite mercy, just used my voice that day to bring hope to the world. Before then, the whole world was terrified. Everybody was terrified. The whole world was caged. And that day, my voice rang out, and He brought hope. It was like a watershed moment. People had been locked up in their homes for three months. Nobody was coming out of the house. The two-week lockdown had become almost a four-months lockdown. Everybody was terrified. And God, in His infinite mercy, just wanted to give humanity a respite. So, when I spoke that, something went off in the spirit. Oh, and of course, the devil decided to attack me. They came against me and ah, it was wild. But like I said, I was trained for this. If you read my book, “Let America Live,” you’ll realize I was trained for this. This my destiny. God had trained me for years and years and prepared me for just this time, you know. I was called and trained for such a time as this, just like Esther in the Bible. So, when they came after me, they attacked me. They vilified me. They called me names. They, oh my God, the more they attacked me, the more people talked about me—some vilified me—the more people wanted to go see who this lady was. And it was crazy. You know, nothing had ever gone viral. And only God could have made it viral.
So, it was wild after that. I came home, and the clinic was wild. People were lined up in the clinic. Some were cussing me out, some were throwing flowers, some wanted my autograph. It was the craziest thing ever! You know, people wanted interviews: the ones that wanted to interview me to twist my words and make me look crazy. The others called me “from Trump’s demon sperm.” They associated me with President Trump, and all the rats against President Trump ate me. I’ve never met President Trump. In fact, when he retweeted me, he said, “I don’t know the lady,” and it’s true. I’ve never met President Trump. Oh my God, it made some say that I was being bribed by President Trump to say that, and oh, it was wild. But like I said, I was trained for this. We are warriors, spiritual warriors, and trained for this. So, it didn’t faze me that much. I came back home. We started a telehealth service. And then we made sure that we’re here, practically, to take care of the American people. We’ve seen over 120,000 patients over this two-year period. And my team also put together different supplements. We created, like, the COVID supplements. It had vitamin C, D, zinc and more, because we realized that a lot of people were getting sick because they didn’t have enough supplements.