In Hong Kong and mainland China, CCTV cameras are almost everywhere. The Chinese mainland company “Zhejiang Dahua Technology Co. Ltd.” was recently found by the Internet Protocol Video Market (IPVM), a U.S. video surveillance research organization, that four types of its surveillance cameras have the capability to identify race, skin color, and Uyghurs or Tibetan faces. “Dahua Technology” denied the accusation and claimed that it would never develop products that identify ethnic groups.
The IPVM said that “Dahua Technology” was awarded nearly $1 billion in contracts for large-scale Xinjiang police projects, including the construction and operation of surveillance facilities in Xinjiang police stations. In November 2020, Dahua Technology replied to the South China Morning Post by email, denying that their products had a race-tracking function. In February 2021, “Dahua Technology” was found to have software development tools that included tracking functions for Uyghurs, and the company later changed its claim to “have never provided ethnic detection products or services in Xinjiang, China.”
In August 2021, “Dahua Technology” changed its claim again to “have never developed a product or solution designed to identify or otherwise target any specific ethnic group.”
In August 2022, Dahua Technology finally acknowledged the authenticity of the “Uyghur Warning” work but claimed that the document was a “historic internal software design requirement document.” The company had never implemented or put it into commercial use.
Wong Ho-wah, the convener of the Open Data Group of the Hong Kong Internet Governance Forum, responded at the time that he understood the concerns of Hong Kong citizens about the “Dahua Technology” equipment. Because of the alleged involvement of race-related facial recognition, the public would be worried that a similar situation would happen in Hong Kong. “When you see Hikvision, Dahua, or even just a 360-degree fisheye lens, you will naturally think of the facial recognition system.”