The only way to guarantee you won’t reach your biggest goals is to never set them. The bigger the dream, the more resistance you’ll probably encounter along the way. That’s where the power of believing in yourself comes in—after all, if you don’t think you can realize your dream, no one else will either.
“They’ve been able to master it [that inner voice],” she says. “Once they’ve recognized the existence of it, they continuously acknowledge and manage it in a way that helps to motivate and encourage their pursuits.”
In my case, my current goal is to transform Jotform to an AI-powered company. This won’t be a minor transition—it’s going to be a long road to figuring out what solutions will work for us and how to implement them. Even so, I believe it’s worth it, and even more importantly, I believe we’ll succeed.
It’s not necessary to plan out every step of your map at first, but you do need to have a basic understanding of potential paths and what it will take to pursue each. What resources do you need, and how do you acquire them?
We have to be careful to plan for the realm of what’s actually possible, rather than getting carried away by the hype.
The transition from having a dream to drawing a roadmap can be a moment of reckoning for many companies. If our hope was to replace customer service with chatbots (which it’s not), we would have a problem, because that’s not currently a practical use for AI.
A bumpy road, however, is not a reason to give up. One project we’ve worked on for years is classifying forms. We’ve tried a lot of different strategies, but have yet to figure out how to make it practical. But we’re still trying, because we’re confident that the right approach is out there — we just have to find it.
Hard work is about more than just putting your nose to the grindstone (though that’s certainly part of it). It’s also about improving your knowledge and understanding of a given topic, and expending the resources necessary for that growth to happen.
At Jotform, we’re putting our roadmap into action. We’ve brought in a consultant who has helped major companies from Apple to Adobe implement AI. Already, our data team is practicing putting their new knowledge to use, working on projects that range from classifying users by industry to catching spammers. We also executed a company-wide hack week, giving every department the chance to think about how AI can improve their operations.