Social movements such as the promotion of critical race theory, the “defund the police” movement, and wokeism, as well as stealth tactics such as intellectual property theft and drug trafficking, are used in unrestricted hybrid warfare by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) to weaken the United States, BlackOps Partners CEO Casey Fleming says.
Today, the United States is at war with China and with the CCP, Fleming said, explaining that “there’s only one China and it’s completely controlled by the CCP, so you can’t extract one or the other.”
The CCP regime propagandizes to Chinese people that the United States is “the great evil in the world that must be overtaken, for China to have their overall destiny, which is to rule the world,” Fleming said. “They say that we are the dark, we represent the devil.”
The CCP is “an enemy” of the United States because it calls the United States an enemy, he said.
Fleming likened the gray zone to the strategy being used by the CCP against Taiwan: “Weaken your enemy ... to the point of capitulation, so that they say, ‘Okay, we don’t want to go to war, we value our people. We don’t want death and destruction; we’ll just go ahead and join China.’
“[The gray zone is] worse than conventional warfare because it’s killing an economy, it’s killing our ability to fight.”
Fleming cited U.S. Adm. Chester Nimitz, credited with winning the Pacific War during World War II, who said a few years after that war that the United States has the most powerful military in the world, and in order to kill it, its economy needs to be killed.
And this exactly what the CCP has been doing, Fleming said. There are over 100 different methods of unrestricted hybrid warfare, he said, explaining that the word “unrestricted” means the enemy follows no rules.
“We follow the rule of law and international rules of order in how we transact, [do] business, and so on. Well, your enemy does not follow any of that. They say: Those are your laws and, in fact, we’re going to handcuff you with your own laws.”
If a Chinese company steals the intellectual property related to a product developed by an American company, it doesn’t incur any development costs and can immediately start making the product in China, Fleming said.
It then sells the product to the customers of the U.S. company at about half price, thus putting the IP owner out of business, he said.
Drug warfare is another method being used by the CCP to weaken the United States, the expert said.
“They [also] use the six drug cartels—beautiful distribution network—to get that all through North America and even to Europe.”
Currently, most methamphetamine in the United States is produced by transnational criminal organizations in Mexico, the NIDA said.
“The drug can be easily made in small clandestine laboratories, with relatively inexpensive over-the-counter ingredients. Methamphetamine production also involves a number of other very dangerous chemicals. Toxic effects from these chemicals can remain in the environment long after the lab has been shut down, causing a wide range of health problems for people living in the area.”
Religious warfare is another form of the gray zone methods carried out by the CCP, Fleming noted.
“They killed every bit of religion in China. The Christian cross has been banned. They’ve shut down churches, they’ve shut down mosques. And that same thing is happening now today in the U.S.”
“It is Chinese communism on the streets of America and in your living room. And I’m talking critical race theory, I’m talking Black Lives Matter,” Fleming said.
“Blacks are extremely important. They’re incredible people, but they’re being hijacked in the Black Lives Matter movement. And many blacks understand that and they’re saying: We need a different platform to move all Americans to—not just blacks but all Americans—to a new platform, to take our country back from this whole Chinese communist infiltration and subversion.”
The Epoch Times has reached out to Black Lives Matter for comment.
“The ultimate goal is to weaken the United States so it weakens our will to fight, and they can just walk on. They don’t have to fire one bullet. ...  It’s to take over and replace democracy and freedom worldwide with Chinese communism,” Fleming said.
Fleming pointed out that the U.S. military wouldn’t be able to protect the country against an enemy using unrestricted hybrid warfare.
“[The military is] still fighting in World War II technology. War is going to electronics, robots, AI [artificial intelligence], radar jamming, all these types of things,” he said.
“Our military is not meant to protect our economy, and not meant to protect your company and your company’s intellectual property and your suppliers who have your intellectual property.”
In order to prevent the CCP from winning this war, foreign influence through investments needs to be stopped first in any part of the country, whether it’s business, academia, or government, the expert said. His company BlackOps Partners, provides educational resources on its website to help people understand the risks.
“When you hear of a former congressman being paid a half-million dollars a year to lobby for TikTok, or lobby for ByteDance, with the DOD [U.S. Department of Defense], there’s a problem.”
Many in mainstream media are compromised by the CCP, Fleming said, adding that a lot of companies actually walked back their statements critical of the CCP, e.g. statements of genocide taking place in China.
“Even the well-renowned CEO of JPMorgan Chase had to walk back a comment.”
“We are in battle. It’s just a battle we’re not familiar with,” Fleming said.
Day by day, people’s freedoms and values and their children’s freedoms and values are being eroded by media, critical race theory, defund the police movement, and wokeism, he said.
People should care about it because their children and grandchildren “are on the balance,” said Fleming, a senior adviser on risk, strategy, and counterintelligence.