The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 1,049 points on Sept. 13 in response to the latest devastating inflation report from the Department of Labor. Overall year-over-year inflation, according to the Consumer Price Index (CPI), was 8.3 percent in August, with core inflation at a shocking 6.3 percent year-over-year.
Continuing record inflation: check. Food prices soaring: check. Americans’ net worth imploding: check. Credit card debt soaring: check. U.S. manufacturing in a slump: check.
Where’s Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), the Republican minority leader in the U.S. Senate?
McConnell is a creature of Washington. He has been in the Senate since 1985 and either the majority or minority leader since 2006. His Senate Leadership Fund PAC is the gold standard of the Republican establishment for campaign fundraising.
Targeted spending could put these and other GOP challengers over the top and McConnell into the majority leader’s chair next January. Does McConnell wish to be the majority leader or not?
But maybe that’s just the problem. If the Republicans take the Senate in November (which is no sure thing, given the absence of a national strategy at this late stage), an influx of Trump-endorsed America First senators could put McConnell’s Senate leadership post at risk. This is a distinct possibility, as Sen. Rick Scott (R-Fla.), chair of the National Republican Senatorial Committee (NRSC), appears to be jockeying for the position himself.
“Many of the very people responsible for losing the Senate last cycle are now trying to stop us from winning the majority this time by trash-talking our Republican candidates ... [and are] giving anonymous quotes to help The Washington Post or The New York Times write stories trashing Republicans.”
The loss of political power means the loss of big donors—anathema for a long-serving senator used to wheeling and dealing and controlling Republican caucus votes with PAC money. But if the Democrats hold the Senate—which would largely be because of a poor Republican political strategy, given all of the obvious political problems that the Democrats’ agenda has created for themselves—McConnell would likely retain his position as minority leader (along with access to all that big donor money during high stakes pay-for-play deliberations in the next Congress).
Has he calculated that it’s better to be a handmaiden to Schumer’s Democrats than to risk losing his Senate Republican leadership role? That would certainly explain his dissing of Trump-endorsed Senate candidates.
The reforms included three core Republican principles—accountability, responsibility, and opportunity—which resonated with many Americans. And the Republicans subsequently gained 54 House seats and nine Senate seats and flipped both chambers of Congress.
As the 1994 Contract with America was introduced a mere six weeks before the elections, there’s still time for McConnell and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) (the prospective Republican speaker of the House) to produce their own Contract with America to galvanize voters this year by giving them real reasons to vote Republican, not merely to vote against Bidenomics and left-wing Democrat policies being crammed down Americans’ throats.
A coordinated announcement by all GOP leaders and candidates with an accompanying nationwide communications strategy would give voters real reasons to vote Republican this year.