Looking for California-related books to give as Christmas presents? Here are two new ones from 2022.
Yes, there actually are some remaining conservatives in the City by the Bay. After all, in 2020 President Trump garnered 12.7 percent of the vote there.
Parker begins with some essays on philosophers he admired, especially John Locke and Friedrich Hayek. “Our Declaration of Independence is verbatim John Locke: the right of citizens physically to overthrow noxious government. At is origin and for 150 years, the U.S. was a Lockean nation. Then, believing the world to be moving forward, 20th century progressives put an end to that. We are today a Hobbesian nation, a state of overarching rules that leave citizens less responsible for their actions and allow government to do more than protect.”
Getting to the San Francisco section, he writes, “A San Francisco conservative: to those on the Left, an oxymoron – it’s not possible; to those on the Right, a sigh of relief – we’re not alone!”
He laments, “Why do San Francisco liberals balk at economic freedom? Creative business, creative teaching, creative art – none of these demands government regulation.”
The city’s homelessness problem has become notorious around the world, to a great extent caused by high rents. Rent control hasn’t helped. Parker calls it “a political solution to an economic problem. San Francisco doesn’t have high rent; it has a housing shortage, an economic problem, for which the city chose a political solution: rent control. Supported by a host of laws, San Francisco tells its landlords what they cannot do and cannot say to their tenants; literally, they do not have the right to negotiate with each other.”
I was happy to see Parker is a fan of Jane Jacobs, the great opponent of city planning, which disrupts the natural congregation of people in favor of artificial arrangements that cause misery. He urges San Francisco to “terminate its ‘liberal’ planning department. Every thought, every action, of that institution is wrong. The planning department is ruining the city! ... City planning goes against the evolution of a city, the ongoing creative equilibrium process that must be allowed to run its course.”
It’s so sad. I haven’t visited San Francisco often, the last time in 2013, but the deterioration of one of the world’s most charming cities is itself a crime.
A different book arrives from the late Bruce Herschensohn, the longtime conservative California commentator, filmmaker, speechwriter to President Reagan and others, and 1992 candidate for the U.S. Senate. Our country would be a far better place had he beaten Democrat Barbara Boxer that year in a close race. He always was good for a quote and some perspective on an issue. In 2012, I saw Bruce at the wake for Tom Fuentes, the former chairman of the Orange County Republican Party. I suggested Bruce run again for the Senate. He joked at 80 he was too old. Of course, that was before we had a president who’s 80.
Unfortunately, in 1997, Hong Kong came under the control of the communist regime in Beijing. But how did it get to be such a beacon of liberty? And why does it remain so today, despite sometimes brutal interference by its overlords?