Reversing Trump-era tariffs on China appears to be inevitable.
In an interview on ABC’s news program “This Week,” Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen confirmed recent news reports that “President Biden is considering reversing some of the Trump-era tariffs on China to combat skyrocketing inflation.”
This is an odd claim because the original purpose of the tariffs was a response to China’s longstanding and unfair mercantilist trade practices.
Yellen’s message was just a continuation of previous airing by Biden administration appointees on the subject of cutting tariffs. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo discussed the issue on CNN’s news program “State of the Union” on June 5.
With the backdrop that some 93 percent of Americans consider price inflation to be the biggest problem to be fixed in the United States, Raimondo stated that the White House was considering tariff cuts.
“The president has asked us on his team to analyze (the potential for tariff reductions) and so we’re in the process of doing that for him and he will have to make that decision,” she told CNN.
The U.S. government has used all three reasons over the years. In 1789, tariffs were implemented to protect new American industries from European competition. Tariffs make foreign goods more expensive than domestically-produced items, which has the double benefit of developing a domestic marketplace (precisely what transpired in the 19th century).
The so-called “free trade policy” was a choice made by U.S. policymakers to facilitate communist China’s integration into the world economy. This came to pass when China was admitted to the World Trade Organization in 2001.
By exploiting its top resource—its large population and associated low labor costs—China was able to undercut production costs in the United States and thereby provide cheaper goods and services than could be produced by American companies.
The result was a gargantuan U.S. trade deficit with China and disaster for U.S. manufacturing concerns. The goods trade deficit with China rose to $33.9 billion this past March, according to the Coalition for a Prosperous America.
The Trump-era tariffs were the first attempt by a U.S. president to restore balance to U.S.-China trade and reduce the trade deficit with China since former President Richard Nixon and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger “opened China” in 1972.
Below are state media parroting the CCP’s narrative on tariffs:
On June 6, China Daily quoted Tu Xinquan, dean of the China Institute for WTO Studies at the University of International Business and Economics in Beijing, whose refined message aligned perfectly with the thinking of President Joe Biden’s own economic advisers: “Removing additional tariffs on Chinese goods is an important measure for the United States to curb its record-high inflation.”
On May 19, Shu Jueting, spokeswoman for China’s Ministry of Commerce, claimed that the “removal of tariffs will benefit the world,” according to China Daily.
The Biden administration is riddled with political appointees with conflicts of interest with China, including at least two of Biden’s cabinet-level officials directly involved in diplomatic and trade negotiations with their Chinese counterparts.
And Biden appointee Dominic Ng, who represents the United States on the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Advisory Council (ABAC), has praised China’s authoritarian economic system by stating that “there is nothing better than that.”