The UK’s government departments has been told to stop installing surveillance cameras made by Chinese companies and advised to replace existing ones, a Cabinet minister said on Thursday.
It comes after Biometrics and Surveillance Camera Commissioner Fraser Sampson warned the government against using cameras made by Chinese companies Hikvision and Dahua.
Dowden said a review by the Government Security Group concluded that additional controls are required for the installation of visual surveillance systems on the government estate.
“Departments have therefore been instructed to cease deployment of such equipment onto sensitive sites, where it is produced by companies subject to the National Intelligence Law of the People’s Republic of China,” the statement reads.
The decision effectively bans surveillance equipment from any Chinese manufacturers as the National Intelligence Law requires all organisations and citizens to “support, assist, and cooperate with national intelligence efforts.”
Dowden said the ban is to “prevent any security risks materialising” because security considerations are “always paramount around these sites.”
“Additionally, departments have been advised that no such equipment should be connected to departmental core networks and that they should consider whether they should remove and replace such equipment where it is deployed on sensitive sites rather than awaiting any scheduled upgrades,” he added.
Both companies have been blacklisted by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission for posing a threat to American national security.
According to Conor Healy, director of government research at security and surveillance industry research group IPVM, there are “significant” risks using cameras made by Hikvision and Dahua, both having backdoors and vulnerabilities that can be used to access recordings, archives, and settings, and hack into connected secure networks.
Both firms are also known to supply surveillance equipment that has been used to target Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities in China’s Xinjiang region.
Neither companies responded to The Epoch Times’ request for comment at the time.
The Scottish government revealed in March in response to a freedom of information request that it had “a number of legacy items manufactured by Hikvision which are being phased out as part of an on-going security improvement programme.”
Asked whether this include any equipment made by Dahua or other Chinese manufacturers, a a spokesperson for the Scottish government told The Epoch Times in an email on Monday, “All existing CCTV kit and equipment, including Hikvision and other companies’ products, are being replaced with a new integrated system to improve and future-proof the security of the Scottish Government estate.”