A man who accidentally threw away a hard drive containing 8,000 Bitcoins has hatched an $11 million plan to get them back again with the help of artificial intelligence (AI).
The unfortunate incident happened because Howells, 36, got the hard drive mixed up with another blank hard drive, both of which had been placed inside a drawer.
The 8,000 Bitcoins, which he mined in 2009, are estimated to be worth about $181 million today.
Despite filing multiple requests to search for the hard drive within a huge landfill in the city, Howells has been denied by Newport’s city council, which cited high expenses and potential damage to the environment.
But the Welshman, who is a former IT worker, has not given up hope in his battle with local authorities, and has created a multimillion-dollar plan that involves an AI-powered machine, according to Business Insider, which viewed the $11 million proposal.
Specifically, Howells’ plan involves a team of eight experts who specialize in various areas that would help in his hunt for the Bitcoin, including AI-powered sorting, landfill excavation, waste management, and data extraction.
One of those experts, for example, previously worked for a company that recovered data from the black box of the Columbia space shuttle crash on Feb. 1, 2003, according to Business Insider.
Those experts are set to receive an unknown amount in the form of a bonus should they successfully find the hard drive.
With the help of these experts, machines would dig up the garbage, which then would be sorted at a temporary facility close to the landfill site and sifted through by humans as well as a robotic sorting machine from a company in Oregon called Max-AI.
“We’re trying to achieve this project to a full commercial standard,” Howells told Business Insider.
After the landfill site has been excavated, Howells said the rubbish would be cleaned and, as much as possible, would be recycled, while the remaining garbage would be reburied.
“We do not want to damage the environment in any way,” he said. “If anything, we want to leave everything in a better condition.”
He also hopes to build either a solar or wind-energy farm on top of the landfill site once he and his team of experts have completed their search for the hard drive, which may not even work after spending almost a decade laying under piles of rubbish.
However, the chance of his million-dollar plan going ahead is currently looking very unlikely, according to Newport city officials.
“There is nothing that Mr. Howells could present to us” that would make the council agree, a council representative told Insider. “His proposals pose significant ecological risk, which we cannot accept and indeed are prevented from considering by the terms of our permit.”
The Epoch Times has contacted the Newport city council for comment.
Meanwhile, venture capitalists Jaberg and Wendeborn have promised to provide the $11 million in funding based on the council’s approval of the plan.