Veteran U.S. diplomat Henry Kissinger has called for a negotiated peace deal in Ukraine amid its invasion from neighboring Russia, in an effort to prevent another devastating world war.
“I have repeatedly expressed my support for the allied military effort to thwart Russia’s aggression in Ukraine,” Kissinger wrote. “But the time is approaching to build on the strategic changes which have already been accomplished and to integrate them into a new structure towards achieving peace through negotiation.”
“The preferred outcome for some is a Russia rendered impotent by the war. I disagree,” Kissinger continued.
Kissinger, 99, helped develop the Cold War policy of detente toward the Soviet Union as secretary of state under Republican Presidents Richard Nixon and later Gerald Ford.
Ukraine has won back large swathes of land seized by Russia since the launch of its “special military operation” on Feb. 24. However, Russia now controls around a fifth of Ukraine.
“For all its propensity to violence, Russia has made decisive contributions to the global equilibrium and to the balance of power for over half a millennium. Its historical role should not be degraded. Russia’s military setbacks have not eliminated its global nuclear reach, enabling it to threaten escalation in Ukraine,” he added.
The former U.S. diplomat went on to note that “the dissolution of Russia or destroying its ability for strategic policy could turn its territory encompassing 11 time zones into a contested vacuum.”
This, he said, could have disastrous consequences for the rest of the world, leading to violent uprisings among other issues, which, given the presence of thousands of nuclear weapons in Russia, could pose a real danger to the globe.
Kissinger also noted the need to address the threats of a world dominated by artificial intelligence.
“As the world’s leaders strive to end the war in which two nuclear powers contest a conventionally armed country, they should also reflect on the impact on this conflict and on long-term strategy of incipient high-technology and artificial intelligence,” Kissinger wrote. “Autonomous weapons already exist, capable of defining, assessing and targeting their own perceived threats and thus in a position to start their own war.”
Ukrainian officials promptly criticized the comments made by Kissinger in his opinion piece, saying his proposal served only to “appease the aggressor.”
“The prescription that the ex-Secretary of State calls for, but is afraid to say out loud, is simple: appease the aggressor by sacrificing parts of Ukraine with guarantees of non-aggression against the other states of Eastern Europe,” he said, adding that “any agreement with the devil - a bad peace at the expense of Ukrainian territories - will be a victory for Putin and a recipe for success for autocrats around the world.”