For the technology sector, 2022 has been the year of layoffs. From Amazon to Zillow, many of the tech titans have been trimming the fat and reducing their workforce numbers in response to growing recession fears, poor investment decisions, and lower revenues.
“After a deep set of reviews, we recently decided to consolidate some teams and programs. One of the consequences of these decisions is that some roles will no longer be required,” he said.
In an internal memo on Nov. 17, Amazon CEO Andy Jassy warned that the corporation would continue to terminate employees in the coming year.
In October, the company offered lackluster guidance for the fourth quarter. It also shared disappointing numbers during the third quarter: costs and expenses climbed by 19 percent year-over-year to $22.1 billion, the tech firm’s overall sales tumbled by 4 percent to $27.71 billion, and operating income fell by 46 percent to $5.66 billion.
But reports suggest that the social network could see a considerable number of employees quit after Musk issued an “extremely hardcore” work ultimatum of “long hours at high intensity.”
He gave Twitter staff until 5 p.m. New York time on Nov. 17 to determine if they wanted to work for him, which triggered concerns that the website would crash that evening, leading to various trending hashtags, including “RIPTwitter” and “TwitterDown.”
That’s a far cry from during the COVID-19 pandemic, when the tech industry experienced an enormous boom. Many of these companies hired thousands of workers, despite a global economy that had been mostly shut down. More people shifted their lives to the online world, from shopping to streaming.
But the market is now preparing for a slowdown in multiple areas of the international marketplace.
The advertising business has been slumping. Many tech firms are reliant on ad revenue, but corporate earnings reports have highlighted a declining trend.
Investors are pressuring tech companies to cut costs, purporting that they would be too slow to respond to a recession with bloated payrolls.
Activist investor and billionaire hedge fund manager Christopher Hohn urged Alphabet “to take aggressive action” on labor.
Last, tech leaders are now coping with the end of an era of cheap money. When the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates to zero and pumped trillions of dollars into the financial system, the cost of capital was inexpensive. This facilitated a climate of immense fundraising, bloated valuations, significant rallies in tech stocks, and opulent workplaces.