Microsoft, Disney, ByteDance (the owner of TikTok), and Apple are also meta-developing.
But while Chinese companies will be neck and neck with the West in hardware and software, they will be at a major disadvantage in developing meta content.
Given the popular demand for novelty and the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) aversion to diversity, the metaverse is likely to splinter along national lines, at the very least between China and the rest.
And China’s metaverse could get dystopic.
If you try to say, for example, “Taiwan is an independent country” or “Falun Gong is a protected religion,” a voice-recognition technology matched with artificial intelligence (AI) could make your avatar say the opposite. Nobody, not even you, the user, would necessarily know that what your avatar said in the metaverse has nothing to do with your true beliefs.
Conformity could be terrifyingly total.
Hearing and seeing could be entirely mediated by metaverse headphones and goggles. Augmented reality (AR) combined with AI could enable the CCP to make you hear what it wants you to hear, even when speaking to your spouse in your bedroom.
As a punishment for not memorizing the propaganda, you could be forced into hours of virtual sweeping and mopping, all while listening to communist slogans on repeat. Miss a spot, and your haptic suit gives you a zap.
Compare that to the metaphorical “sex, drugs, and rock ’n’ roll,” along with a liberal helping of violence, already populating the West’s metaverse.
In the West’s metaverse, the sky’s the limit, and everything else is boring, putting Mom, Dad, and Xi at a disadvantage.
Take violence, for example. The most popular video and meta-games are full of shooting and knife fights, with “ketchup” spurting liberally around the screen.
Beijing’s attitude toward the metaverse is indicative of its antagonism toward individuals and their idiosyncratic desires. TheProGamerJay, for example, wants to feel pain in his haptic vest. He does so by gluing sandpaper and studs to its inside.
Most of us don’t want pain in the metaverse. But we do defend TheProGamerJay’s right to express himself.