The Biden administration’s recent move to limit semiconductor exports to China is facing several hurdles that could negatively impact the effort and place additional strain on international supply chains.
Advanced semiconductor chips are used to make everything from pickup trucks to hypersonic missiles. Currently, more than 60 percent of the world’s supply of chips is produced in Taiwan, many of them with the help of U.S. research and design.
“These advanced computing items and ‘supercomputers’ are being used by the PRC to improve calculations in weapons design and testing including for WMD, such as nuclear weapons, hypersonics, and other advanced missile systems, and to analyze battlefield effects,” the statement reads, using an acronym for the People’s Republic of China.
Under the new rules, neither U.S. citizens nor permanent residents can support the production or development of China’s domestic advanced semiconductor industry. Now, Chinese Americans are left in limbo waiting to see if they can continue working, albeit temporarily.
As a result, numerous products may not be able to be shipped until vendors are granted special licenses to continue operations, and without the minute-by-minute support that semiconductor foundries need, they could begin shutting down.
The United States planned to review licenses for non-Chinese factories in China hit by the new restrictions on a case-by-case basis. Delays in shipments are likely to occur even with approval.
Such supply chain issues are a cause for concern, according to Michael Pecht, a professor of mechanical engineering at the University of Maryland.
“Supply chain management is going to be an issue,” he said. “I think it’s going to take quite a while. Even with the CHIPS Act, it’s going to take three to four years to build the facilities, and then it’s going to take longer to get the technology up to speed.”
Pecht said that the United States was so dependent on Taiwanese semiconductor manufacturers that the strain could adversely affect U.S. national security interests.
“I think it’s going to be tough for the U.S. right now,” he said. “I think companies like Intel are far behind and, really, we depend quite heavily in terms of security and military issues as well as just regular high technology components on TSMC. So, it’s going to be quite difficult.”
To that end, the head of TSMC warned that the growing conflict between China and the United States could have serious consequences.
Likewise, the Semiconductor Industry Association, which represents the U.S. semiconductor industry, issued a statement on the new rules, saying that it was too early to tell what the ramifications would be.