The United Kingdom has pledged 25 million pounds (US$34 million) to “strengthen regional resilience” to combat ongoing security challenges in the Indo-Pacific.
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson made the announcement during a virtual meeting with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Feb. 17, where both leaders pledged to support the rules-based international order and respect the “sovereign rights of all nations.”
Both leaders welcomed progress with AUKUS citing the signing of the Exchange of Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information Agreement on Feb. 8, which opened the door for the UK and United States to share naval propulsion information with Australia.
“Leaders further welcomed the presence in Australia of UK and U.S. officials to provide expert advice on the many facets of nuclear stewardship needed to operate a nuclear-powered submarine capability,” the joint statement said.
Johnson and Morrison said officials from all three countries were also meeting in London to discuss collaboration on cyber, artificial intelligence, quantum tech, and undersea capabilities.
“The prime ministers expressed their determination to continue to work closely together, in lockstep with President Biden, to make AUKUS a success, and looked forward to the next set of trilateral discussions at the end of the month in Australia,” the statement read.
The agreement will made in response to counterbalance ongoing aggressions from Beijing in the Indo-Pacific region.
Meanwhile, both leaders also expressed “grave concerns” on reports of human rights violations targeting the Uyghur minority in China’s western Xinjiang province, called on Beijing to protect rights and freedoms in Hong Kong, and expressed support for Taiwan’s participation in international groupings, while calling for peace in the Taiwan Strait.
Chinese military aircraft have made regular incursions into Taiwanese airspace in recent months heightening existing tensions caused by Beijing’s militarisation of the South China Sea.
“Leaders recognised the importance of countries being able to exercise their maritime rights and freedoms in the South China Sea consistent with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS),” the statement said.
“Leaders reiterated their strong opposition to any unilateral actions that could escalate tensions and undermine regional stability,”