Florida may soon cut ties with China as the state is currently reviewing its investments in Chinese companies, including those of its retirement system.
U.S. pension holders and retirees are unwittingly investing in companies that are tied to the Chinese communist regime, and Gov. Ron DeSantis in December 2021 took action to stop Floridians’ money from flowing into these firms.
Following DeSantis’s order, the SBA has started the audit process, according to the governor’s spokesperson, Christina Pushaw.
There’s no clear timeline for the conclusion of the review, “but the legislative session ends March 11, and it’s likely we will have an update to share before that,” Pushaw told The Epoch Times.
President Joe Biden and former President Donald Trump declared a national emergency to tackle the security threats posed by Chinese companies.
DeSantis cited the non-transparent nature of Chinese companies and their potential involvement in human rights abuses committed by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).
“The elites in America for a generation have created this big monster,” DeSantis said.
Florida also revoked the state pension fund’s proxy voting authority that has been given to outside fund managers, such as BlackRock. DeSantis accused them of pursuing ideologies that are inconsistent with the state’s values and its financial interests.
“We urge elected officials to do their due diligence in educating themselves and their staff on the multiple risks posed by BlackRock’s extensive investments in Chinese companies, both from an ethical standpoint as well as the fiduciary responsibility owed to U.S. pension holders and retirees,” William Hild, executive director of Consumers’ Research, wrote in the letter to the 10 governors, including DeSantis.
The 10 states whose public pension funds are most invested in BlackRock are Washington, Florida, New York, Nevada, Nebraska, South Carolina, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Montana, and West Virginia.
BlackRock and several big U.S. asset management funds have been criticized for investing in shares of Chinese companies that support the CCP’s military and security apparatuses, and help its human rights abuses.
“BlackRock’s investment choices are not only risking the security of U.S. pensions, but the security of our nation as a whole,” the report states.
According to the report, BlackRock has significant investments in companies that bolster the Chinese military’s technological buildup, including Tencent, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., China Telecom, and China SpaceSat.
The asset management firm has also invested in two companies, Hikvision and iFlytek, that are blacklisted by the U.S. government for human rights abuses against Uyghurs in the far-western Xinjiang region of China, the report states. Hikvision is one of the world’s largest surveillance equipment manufacturers, and iFlytek is China’s leading artificial intelligence company.
“It is not ‘woke.’ It is capitalism, driven by mutually beneficial relationships between you and the employees, customers, suppliers, and communities your company relies on to prosper. This is the power of capitalism.”