China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has been undergoing a profound transformation since at least the turn of the century.
In keeping with this timetable, the PLA is currently all about “informationization.” Informationization entails using information technologies to conduct joint military operations across the domains of land, sea, air, space, cyberspace, and the electromagnetic spectrum. It also means exploiting technological advances in microelectronics, sensors, propulsion, stealth, and especially cyber to outfit the PLA with new capacities for long-range strike and disruption.
In short, the PLA, in its long transition from People’s War to limited local wars under conditions of informationization, is seeking to move from being a platform-centric to being a more network-centric force, or a military where the crucial characteristics of force are the network linkages among platforms, as opposed to the platforms themselves.
In particular, intelligentized warfare entails the militarization of the so-called “fourth industrial revolution” (4IR). Critical 4IR technologies include artificial intelligence (AI), machine-learning, quantum computing, cloud storage, autonomous unmanned systems, 5G networking, and the like.
China particularly values AI as a critical technology that could prove consequential to its strategic competition with the United States. Chinese military thinkers believe AI likely will be the key to surpassing the U.S. military as the world’s most capable armed force. Consequently, China has laid out an ambitious program for it to lead the world in AI by 2030.
It would be premature to argue that China will catch up to the defense-technological state-of-the-art any time soon. For all of its talk of becoming an “informationized” or “intelligentized” military, the PLA is still a decidedly platform-centric force. Most of its modernization efforts over the past two decades have been dedicated to building new combat aircraft, new warships, new submarines, new missiles, and new armor. Becoming a networked or intelligent military is still years, if not decades, off.
Furthermore, this process of informationization or intelligentization itself has been evolutionary: old weapons and military equipment are being gradually replaced, modified, and upgraded, or else being supplemented by and subordinated to more technologically advanced systems.