The executive arm of the European Union on Monday announced a 500 million euro (US$497 million) support budget to help Ukraine’s housing, education, and agricultural sectors.
The agreement was made in the wings of an EU-Ukraine Association Council meeting in Brussels with Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmygal. It comes more than six months after Ukraine was invaded by Russia.
The European Commission said in a statement that the deal is one of four agreements being signed at the Association Council meeting aimed at strengthening Ukraine’s ties to the EU.
“This EU grant funding will help ensure housing and education for internally displaced persons and returnees and support Ukraine’s agriculture sector,” said spokesman Eric Mamer.
“The European Commission has begun to look at a greener Europe through the lens of the European Green Deal. At the same time, it is opening up discussions about the move to a more digital world: the digital transition,” the website states.
According to the European Commission, the continent’s Green Deal aims to transform the EU’s economy. Its stated goals are to eliminate carbon emissions by 2050, “decouple” economic growth from resource use, and promises that “no person and no place [is] left behind.”
One critic of Green New Deal frameworks has said that the climate change-fighting policies they propose are part of a broader effort to tilt free-market economies off their axis and control “every aspect of your life.”
“This is the idea that the United Nations came up with—and the progressive left—that the earth can’t be left with capitalism. Essentially, that capitalism and climate and environment are incompatible,” Morano said.
“Therefore, you need a host of centrally-planned bureaucrats empowered not just in environmental and climate decisions, but in every aspect of your life, to the size of your home to what appliances you use, to what cars you drive,” he said.
The Fiscalis program, among other things, allows the tax administrations of EU countries to work together in fighting tax fraud, evasion, and aggressive tax planning. The customs program will allow authorities to work together in dealing with increasing trade flows, emerging trends, and technologies, while providing a better response to security threats.