“It’s a disaster waiting to happen,” Geoffrey Cain says. “Because TikTok, although the company denies it, is fundamentally obligated to follow the laws of China—laws created by the Chinese Communist Party.”
In a recent episode of EpochTV’s “American Thought Leaders,” host Jan Jekielek speaks with Cain, an award-winning journalist, technologist, and author of “The Perfect Police State: An Undercover Odyssey Into China’s Terrifying Surveillance Dystopia of the Future.”
Cain recently testified before the U.S. Senate about TikTok and why he believes the social media app’s troubled emergence in the United States, its shadowy corporate structure, and its connection to China’s security and data laws make it a unique national security threat.
TikTok is an app that’s popular among Generation Z users. It’s the next wave of social media where anyone can create a short clip of themselves dancing to music or showing their cat. You can load up celebrities and see what they’re up to. The app seems harmless, but beneath the surface, there’s a lot going on. It was created five or six years ago by ByteDance, a Chinese company based in Beijing.
Then, there’s the Council on Foreign Investment in the United States [CFIUS]. It’s charged with reviewing foreign investments that might pose some kind of national security risk. CFIUS has reviewed investments in semiconductors, surveillance cameras, and military weaponry and components.
Now, TikTok is essentially a data-scooping machine. It’s getting your face, your voice, your behavior, your movements. It’s learning about you. Like all social media platforms, these systems are extremely profitable because they use that data to sell ads to consumers.
And yet, there wasn’t even a CFIUS review at the beginning. That should sound alarm bells. Why did TikTok decide not to do that review? It’s as if they sneaked into the market to place their software in the hands of the next generation.
One of the problems is that the TikTok algorithm decides what you see, and in the past, TikTok executives have admitted the app has been used to suppress bad news coming out of China.
In 2019, a leaked moderation guideline showed ByteDance instructing TikTok moderators, including in America, to look for material that might look bad. That included anything that shows poverty, slums, poor people, and so-called ugly people. The moderation guidelines said: “You need to suppress this kind of material. We only want to see beautiful people who are happy and nice and attractive.”
This was used to suppress news about the Uyghurs and human rights abuses in China.
This is where the TikTok and the ByteDance connection becomes problematic. The Chinese Communist Party will see TikTok fundamentally as a Chinese company and one that needs to report to the government.
The National Intelligence Law of China and National Security Law require people in China to take part in intelligence operations upon request. It doesn’t matter if TikTok says, and this is how they always respond, “We’re an American company, we’re separate, we’re based all over the world, we’re not the same as the Chinese company ByteDance.” But they also admit they have employees in China and these employees, as we know, are subject to the harsh realities of the Chinese Communist Party.
And the evidence that keeps coming out contradicts what they say under oath in front of U.S. senators. There are audio files where you could hear people talking about how they had to go through Chinese executives and developers to figure out how the data of Americans was being observed and used. TikTok has come out full blast trying to deny this is the case, but the audio files are there.
One other piece of evidence is in TikTok’s own privacy policy, which says, “We can share data with our corporate group.” TikTok was pressed about this in a previous congressional hearing. The senator asked them three times, “What is the definition of your corporate group? Does this include ByteDance in China?” After dodging the question repeatedly, TikTok finally admitted, “Yes, our corporate group includes ByteDance.” That means, according to their own policies, they might share their data with the Chinese arm.
My guide told me there was a three-step process toward a police state, and that he had been observing it very carefully. The first step was this process of ensuring that technology, these social media apps, were in the hands of everybody and were then used to blast misinformation at users about supposed terrorism and how the communist party must react. The Chinese government exploited a sea change in technology to feed people misinformation and to spy on them.
The third step was what my guide called the panopticon, a very old term. Imagine there’s a circular prison camp with a guard post in the center and there’s one guard in this post who can see all of the prisoners because it’s a giant circle around him. But the prisoners can’t see the guard looking at them, so they can only guess if they’re being watched at any moment. It’s a very good system for controlling the prison population, because everybody is scared of being watched, and nobody wants to get in trouble. This is the system the Chinese Communist Party set up in western China back in 2016 and 2017.
It was a digital panopticon in which everybody was constantly being watched by an artificial intelligence system, which was called the IJOP or the Integrated Joint Operations Platform. This platform would gather data from smartphones. It would gather data from cameras. This region had cameras that covered almost every square inch. They would track everybody and try to create this sense of fear that the party is watching and you have to fall in line. You never knew if you were going to be the next target.