The United States has ramped up efforts to deny China access to advanced semiconductors and chipmaking technologies, thus, escalating the U.S.–China strategic competition.
In May 2019, the United States placed Huawei on its entity sanctions list, preventing U.S. companies from supplying products to Huawei without permission from the U.S. Department of Commerce. As a result, Google ceased working with Huawei, and Huawei devices were denied access to Android updates.
In May 2020, the U.S. Department of Commerce offered new regulations requiring that any chip produced using U.S. technology and equipment first be approved by the United States before it can be sold to Huawei.
Since China is incapable of producing advanced chips domestically, increased U.S. sanctions have created a bottleneck at outsourced chip factories for Huawei.
The shortage of chips has also impacted Huawei’s growing auto component business.
In May 2021, Huawei’s Executive Director Yu Chengdong said on the Chinese social platform WeChat that a 20 yuan (about $3) chip would now cost around 2,500 yuan (about $375) for Huawei to obtain.
“A car needs nine such chips, and the price surge is too much [for the company] to accept,” Yu said.
To hinder its growth, Washington has ramped up its efforts to limit Beijing’s access to pioneering chip technology.
The escalated chip tension reflects the deterioration in U.S.-China relations. As a result, an increasing number of U.S. companies operating in China have become more hesitant and cautious about further investing in China.
Most respondents are large, U.S.-headquartered multinational firms that have operated in China for more than 20 years.
The report revealed that over half of respondents paused, delayed, or canceled investment plans in China due to the country’s draconian COVID-19 response.
Similar market sentiment was also picked up by the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China (European Chamber), based on its “2022 Business Confidence Survey,” released on June 20.
She added that “many are looking towards other destinations for future projects.”
Despite both the U.S. and Europe showing considerably declined market sentiments in China, the data released by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce on Aug. 18 showed otherwise.
It showed the country’s “actual use of foreign investment” in the seven months of this year had increased 17.3 percent compared to the same period last year.
Moreover, 75 percent of the new investment went to the service sector rather than the high-end manufacturing sector as the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) had claimed.
The Chinese regime has long been accused of routinely providing false or misleading data.
Even domestically, China’s National Bureau of Statistics in May identified at least 116 enterprises in three provinces involved in data violations.