The Biden administration is adding 22 Chinese chipmakers to a trade blacklist, severely restricting the companies’ access to U.S. technology.
The Commerce Department added Yangtze Memory Technologies Corp (YMTC) and 21 “major” Chinese entities working in the domain of artificial intelligence chips to the blacklist.
YMTC was added to the list over concerns it could divert U.S. technology to previously blacklisted Chinese tech giants including Huawei and Hikvision. YMTC’s suppliers are now banned from shipping U.S. goods to the company without a difficult-to-obtain license.
The administration will take a more aggressive approach to the other 21 entities, including Cambricon Technologies and state-owned China Electronics Technology Group (CETC), effectively blocking them from accessing technology made anywhere in the world with U.S. equipment.
The announcement was made by the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS), which oversees issues of national security and technology within the department.
Such a maneuver was necessary, the administration said, due to the companies’ close ties with China’s communist regime and other entities supporting the development of China’s military.
“Today’s rules further the Biden Administration’s efforts to deny the PRC access to advanced technologies for military modernization and human rights abuses,” Assistant Secretary of Commerce Thea Rozman Kendler said.
“Following on BIS’s advanced computing and semiconductor manufacturing equipment rule of October 7, today’s additions to the Entity List further our efforts to decisively restrict access to advanced technologies in furtherance of U.S. national security requirements.”
The Commerce Department also targeted nine Chinese entities for supporting China’s military modernization and added one surveillance camera manufacturer for participating in “China’s campaign of repression, mass arbitrary detention, and high-tech surveillance against Uyghurs.”
Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) joined the bipartisan celebration of the announcement with a statement denouncing the companies’ role in benefiting China’s military.