As more and more vaccine-injured patients come forward after receiving one of the COVID-19 inoculations, health care experts are putting the pieces together to understand what’s causing these adverse reactions.
Neurologist Dr. Diane Counce is the medical director of Neurology and Neurodiagnostics of Alabama. She has witnessed a broad spectrum of conditions among her vaccine-injured patients, ranging from nerve and muscle disorders to vision problems, headaches, sleep issues, and personality changes.
Counce refers to the basic premise of the Frontline Critical Care COVID-19 Alliance (FLCCC) protocols, which aim to stop propagation of the spike protein contained in the vaccines, and to heal the mitochondrial damage it causes. The mRNA vaccines set off a spike protein response in the body, which leads to various symptoms.
“One of the problems is wondering how long that spike protein will stay in the system and continue to propagate,” said Counce, “how can I stop the spike protein from doing further damage?”
“That’s where starting patients on Ivermectin comes in,” explains Counce. “It blocks the spike proteins and their receptors of where it would latch on in the human body.”
She says that she considers other processes going on in a patient’s body, and points out that when dealing with toxicity, diagnosis is not clear-cut due to overlap of symptoms.
“It’s very complex; it could be vascular or inflammation, etc.,” says Counce, who says that the diagnosis process is like a Venn diagram—an illustration used to show the logical relationship between symptoms, rather than looking at each symptom in isolation.
Despite the challenges, Counce has sorted the causes of COVID vaccine injuries into five categories. She’s done so after treating over 100 vaccine-injured patients, with treatment success ranging from zero to 100 percent effectiveness.
“The majority will get at least some benefit for some of their symptoms,” said Counce. She says she continually adjusts patients’ medications, supplements, and doses to see if further improvement can be obtained.
“I’ve treated 150 or so [vaccine-injured] patients myself when their primary doctor wouldn’t treat them, or no one would,” he told The Epoch Times, noting the high incidence of Bell’s palsy, brain fog, seizure-like episodes, and more prevalent cases of cancer among both his younger and older patients.
He mentioned the case of one particular patient, who after his second vaccine had an intracranial hemorrhage. The patient had no history of hypertension, alcoholism trauma, diabetes, or any other known risk factor.
“We don’t know the side effects yet, but actually for children, I think it [the vaccine] really is unsafe,” he says.
Due to the mRNA vaccines’ noted autoimmune response, the neurologist also predicts an increase in cases of multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s, and lupus in the next few years.
“We’re in the pioneer stages of how to treat this—it’s a lot different—the path of physiology is different to everybody,” he says. “This is a Pandora’s box, from the top of the head to the bottom of the feet.”
Additionally, in conversations he’s had with several embalmers, they have described the unusual fibrous clots they have seen in the bodies of vaccinated individuals.
For her part, Counce has seen multiple and wide-ranging symptoms.
“When I started seeing vaccinated patients with injuries, their symptoms seemed to be all over the place,” says Counce, noting the difficulty in diagnosing their maladies.
For instance, a patient might have a simple headache, or it could be linked to something severe and serious like stroke, cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST), or another life-threatening condition. “With spike protein-induced disease—or ‘spike-opathy’—the whole problem is that it’s a brand-new entity and you can’t put it in a nice, neat box of previously known diseases,” she says.
When diagnosing, she says that she applies the knowledge she’s gained from “great minds,” like Walter Chestnut, a rare-disease researcher and the principal investigator at WMC Research, and doctors including Paul Marik, Pierre Kory, Peter McCullough, Jordan Vaughn, and Suzanne Gazda.
The study further states: “These vaccinations have now been shown to down-regulate critical pathways related to cancer surveillance, infection control, and cellular homeostasis. They introduce into the body highly modified genetic material.”
Counce also notes the increased prevalence of cases of vaccine acquired immune deficiency syndrome (VAIDS), reported by Chestnut, and of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) in vaccinated young people compared to the unvaccinated.
She says that the COVID vaccines alter both the innate, fast, nonspecific response of the immune system along with the slower adaptive response.
“Spike protein mimics a lot of human cells and proteins. If the body creates antibodies against the spike protein, the antibodies can then look at a normal cell in any part of the body and presume it must be bad, too,” explains Counce. “So, your body is attacking itself.”
“If there’s any kind of mimicry with a tissue in your body, antibodies start attacking your normal tissue,” Counce says, citing Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) as an example—a condition in which a person’s immune system attacks the body’s nerves. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) lists GBS as a rare adverse event in the days or weeks after receiving a vaccination.
Counce says that other vaccines might cause this condition, as well. Her concern dates back to the late 1990s, when she saw correlations between both routine flu vaccines and the 1976 H1N1 swine flu vaccine and the onset of GBS.
“Any time you stimulate your immune system, you have that risk of off-targeting to normal cells and tissues,” says Counce.
GBS affects the myelin, or insulation, that covers and surrounds the axon, or hard wiring, of the nerves. There are other autoimmune problems causing axonal neuropathies and damage. This damage, unfortunately, isn’t as easily re-generated as is the myelin.
She’s also seeing increased incidence of encephalitis—inflammation of brain tissues caused by an autoimmune response or infection.
When the body encounters an allergen, the immune system sends signals to mast cells, which then release histamines. MCAS causes the release of mediators without exposure to an allergen, too often and on their own. Several cases of these responses equal anaphylaxis.
Counce notes that while dermatological symptoms including welts and rash-type symptoms can occur following vaccination, neuropathy symptoms can also emerge.
Once again, the Venn diagram comes into play when it comes to inflammatory responses to the vaccine, she says.
“When you have autoimmune problems, your body brings on the inflammatory response. Brain microglial cells are the inflammatory responders in the brain and spinal cord,” explains Counce, adding that when dysregulation and neuroinflammation of glial cells or the neurons of the brain and spinal cord takes place, this can lead to symptoms of a severe disorder like multiple sclerosis, transverse myelitis, or encephalitis.
One of Counce’s male patients developed symptoms the same day he received the vaccine. An MRI showed inflammation along his left temporal lobe at the gray-white matter junction, which she felt was causing the patient multiple symptoms including headaches, anxiety, personality changes, cognitive changes, strange noises in the left ear, and fatigue.
Counce says that patients with later vaccine injury presentations are harder to diagnose, citing the statements of Alabama-based Army surgeon Lt. Col. Theresa Long M.D., who showed that it took an average of 195 days for neurological symptoms to appear following vaccination.
“Hearing loss and tinnitus along with other types of nerve damage potentially involve microinfarcts, inflammation, autoimmune activation, or everything combined,” says Counce. With her patients’ symptoms ranging from loss of sensation in the feet to shortness of breath and loss of hearing, “Pathology can be all over the place and it’s challenging, so you kind of try to put the pieces together,” she says.
Counce says that patients are also experiencing higher incidence of strokes and other degenerative changes. “If there’s decreased blood flow to the brain, there’s potential for neurodegeneration,” she says. In addition to the higher incidence of blood clots, the newly reported fibrous clots are amyloid-like.
“With amyloid, here comes inflammation. That’s why people will progressively worsen and it leads to permanent problems,” says Counce. She offers the example of vaccinated patients who suddenly start having symptoms that progress rapidly into full-blown problems, as if they’ve had a disease for five years. “It’s really strange,” she says.