In a recent episode of “American Thought Leaders,” host Jan Jekielek sat down with Rubio to discuss how the Chinese regime has been systematically co-opting our elites for decades and leveraging the American system against us—from our innovations to our laws to our free markets.
America needs to be competitive in those fields, and we face an adversary in China that is investing heavily in them, but is also stealing the advances we’re making.
The fear is that we’ll find ourselves in a world where China has established technical dominance in a number of critical fields. There’s no American alive today that has ever lived in a world in which America has been in second place in global technology. The world looks very different when your country isn’t the world leader in technology, and an adversary is.
It’s important for us to understand that if we think we’re going to “free market” our way through this, that’s not going to work, because China isn’t playing by free market rules. They are playing by mercantilist rules where their companies get to cheat and steal, but ours do not. They expect us to live up to the rules, but they also expect us to allow them to continue to violate them.
China is on a completely different scale. China is a technological, commercial, biomedical, geopolitical, military, and industrial competitor. I think on a scale of 1 to 10, China is a 10 and Russia is a 3. And the Chinese are watching Russia and the Ukraine very carefully.
What happens when you invade a neighboring country? How does the world respond? What leverage do they have on us, and what leverage do we have in return? They’re taking notes and learning lessons from this invasion of Ukraine for their future aspirations, both in the South China Sea and in places like Taiwan.
They have the ability to disrupt our economy right now, because we depend way too much on them for both basic raw materials and the finished production of goods. And I don’t think we’ll finish this decade without something happening with Taiwan. So, just imagine we’re getting to that point, and China says to America, “If you get involved with Taiwan, we are going to cut you off from these things.”
And once Taiwan makes that decision, then they have no choice but to cut the best deal they can with the Chinese government. I think that is Plan A for China. That’s what they would prefer to see happen.
Plan B is to take Taiwan by force—a rapid military engagement that allows them to secure [Taiwan] before there can be any foreign engagement, be it from the United States or our allies in the region.
But what everybody needs to understand is that the day China takes Taiwan without the U.S. being able to stop them will be a linchpin moment in human history. That will be the moment when the world will conclude that the United States and the West are no longer the most powerful countries in the world. The whole world order will change to a China-centric world order at that moment. We’re hoping that day will never come.
You don’t put people into death camps. You don’t have slave labor to help your industries. If the most powerful country in the world thinks those things are acceptable, that is going to influence what happens around the world.
So they’ve learned how to play this game.