Total deliveries were about 42 percent higher compared to the third quarter of 2021, when Tesla delivered over 241,000 vehicles.
The EV maker said it produced 19,935 of its high-end Model S and Model X vehicles, and 345,988 of its more popular Model 3 and Model Y vehicles during the quarter.
The Model 3 and Model Y accounted for almost 95 percent of deliveries.
There also appears to be a widening spread between sales and production of its vehicles, due to transit delays between China and Europe.
Vehicles in transit do not count as deliveries until they reach the hands of customers.
Tesla also makes the Model S and Model X cars at its main U.S. factory in Fremont, California.
The most notable departure was Tesla’s artificial intelligence (AI) chief, Andrej Karpathy, who left the company in July after five years. The entire staff of the team developing the company’s autopilot feature was also laid off, among other staff cuts.
Record shipping costs have been hitting the auto industry since the pandemic, along with shortages of semiconductors and other components, while the war in Ukraine has compounded these issues.
Musk’s company blamed the shortfall on changes being made to its overall system, which, according to Tesla’s report, “led to an increase in cars in transit at the end of the quarter.”
Tesla said it was adjusting its delivery systems in order to keep up with expanding production volumes, as vehicle transportation capacity became increasingly “challenging to secure” for a reasonable price toward the end of the last quarter, when EV shipments normally rise.
The EV giant would need to deliver a record-setting 495,000 vehicles in the fourth quarter at 40,000 vehicles a week to reach that goal.
Tesla admitted in a July conference call that the company could have produced about 1.9 million vehicles this year over a 12-month period, but it was constrained by supply-chain challenges. Musk told Tesla shareholders in August that the company will have to expand by roughly a dozen factories to reach its goal of selling 20 million vehicles annually worldwide by 2030, according to The Wall Street Journal.
“I think inflation is going to drop rapidly,” Musk predicted at the August meeting, envisioning a rosier economic outlook compared to many of his peers.
He said that since Tesla purchases its supplies months ahead of time, it can see where prices are headed.
“The interesting thing that we’re seeing now is that most of our commodities, most of the things that go into a Tesla—not all but more than half—the prices are trending down in six months,” he said.
There has been strong encouragement by Western leaders to boost output of EVs amid high fuel prices and to meet “green energy” goals.
This has led Tesla and its competitors in the EV market to strongly expand their production targets in anticipation of rising sales.
President Joe Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act includes incentives for Americans to buy EVs and for car makers to manufacture them domestically.