President Joe Biden signed the 2023 Consolidated Appropriations Act on Dec. 29, 2022, approving $1.7 trillion in federal spending into law. Not many people are discussing an important section of the intelligence bill, which “requires reporting on the wealth and corrupt activities of the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).”
This is a significant move and the first time the United States has investigated the corruption of CCP officials through legislation. To this day, almost none of the CCP officials joined the CCP or became government officials out of their belief in communism but did so because the CCP’s unsupervised system gave them the possibility of unbridled corruption. In other words, the ability to reap personal benefits is the only reason they defend the CCP regime. If the United States were to investigate the corruption of top CCP officials and impose future penalties, this would compromise their loyalty to the corrupt regime.
I told her, “If this doesn’t happen, you can rest assured that an armed reunification with Taiwan won’t occur.”
It isn’t unprecedented for the United States to freeze the assets of CCP officials. In September 2018, Washington sanctioned the General Armaments Department of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and its minister, Lt. Gen. Li Shangfu. Under the U.S. ban, Li couldn’t obtain a U.S. visa, all his assets and interests in the United States were frozen, and U.S. companies and individuals weren’t allowed to conduct transactions with him. Washington was able to quickly get a hold of the assets that Li and his wife owned in the United States.
A free China can’t invade Taiwan. The United States may have spent hundreds of billions of dollars in military spending to deter the CCP from invading Taiwan. Still, the United States can turn China into a free society by spending only a few hundred million dollars to tear down the CCP’s “Information Berlin Wall.”
Sun Tzu said: “For to win one hundred victories in one hundred battles is not the acme of skill. To subdue the enemy without fighting is the acme of skill.”