On Dec. 12, China’s Ministry of Commerce filed a new WTO complaint against the controls. Beijing claims they are trade protectionism, when it should be obvious that they contribute to developing U.S. defenses against the Chinese regime’s military aggression.
The U.S. government thus rightly argues that computer chips are a national security issue, which exempts them from WTO jurisdiction. They need not prove their military relevance to do so, but that adds heft to the argument.
The next revolution in military technology is using supercomputers for militarized artificial intelligence (AI) and weapons modeling, for example, hypersonic missiles and nuclear explosions. The latest super-fast miniaturized chips—ideal for everything from AI to tiny drones—are produced by cutting-edge American, Japanese, and Dutch technologies. If the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) acquires them, the tech could destroy the existing American-led international security system.
The United States and Europe, entranced by free trade fundamentalism, were slow to perceive the threat, react, and adjust long-term economic strategies. Then, Trump broke the spell with his China tariffs. Europe is still kicking and screaming over them rather than creating a united front against Beijing’s genocidal totalitarianism.
The Biden administration is also not pulling out of the WTO, which would hand even more of its power to Beijing. Neither is President Joe Biden appointing a new WTO judge who would revive it from limbo. Good for him.
This strategy must be maintained despite complaints from Beijing, Brussels, free trade fundamentalists, and economists who tend to ignore national security arguments. They apparently can’t see the economic threat of the CCP abusing international institutions to proceed toward its ultimately illiberal goal of global hegemony.
Once countries like China and Russia cease to be national security threats, most optimistically by democratizing, we can safely return to the elegant economies and peacetime luxuries of unmitigated free trade. Meanwhile, our hardball must get harder.
China was admitted to the WTO and other international institutions on the explicit assumption that it would play fair and progress its political system toward democracy, improved human rights, and away from territorial aggression. Instead, Beijing stole our technology, took our money, invaded neighboring territories, appointed Xi Jinping dictator-for-life, innovated a technological gulag for its own citizens, and continued genocide against the Tibetans, Falun Gong adherents, and most recently, the Uyghurs. The CCP has failed on all counts.