Faced with rising raw material costs and poor logistics, major South Korean firms have accelerated their expansion of production bases worldwide to reduce over-reliance on China.
Korean conglomerates such as Samsung, SK Group, Hyundai Motor, Posco, and Lotte have put forward their measures to address the pressures facing the global supply chain. The Russia-Ukraine war and Beijing’s draconian “zero-COVID” policy have also accelerated the supply chain restructuring.
For example, just last year, a shortage of urea supplied by China threatened to cripple economic activity in South Korea. Among other uses, urea is used to cut emissions in diesel vehicles and make fertilizer.
The combined sales of Hyundai Motor Company and Kia Corp. in China peaked at 1.79 million cars in 2016, following South Korea’s deployment of THAAD (Terminal High Altitude Area Defense). The move has since triggered a strong boycott of Korean products in China, resulting in declining sales, with the sales number dropping below 500,000 last year.
THAAD is a U.S.-designed and manufactured anti-missile system installed in South Korea between 2016 and 2017 to defend against North Korea’s missile build-up. However, Beijing has insisted that the deployment of THAAD affects China’s security and has since adopted a series of countermeasures against South Korea.
The consortium, consisting of LG Energy, LG Chem Ltd., LX International Corp., POSCO Holdings, and others, inked a nonbinding framework agreement on April 14 to set up a value chain with Indonesia’s state-owned mining company PT Aneka Tambang Tbk (Antam) and Indonesia Battery Corp. (IBC).
According to the report, the consortium plans to handle the entire EV battery production process, including smelting and refining nickel, manufacturing precursors, cathode materials, and cells, as well as assembling finished products in the Southeast Asian country. The move seeks to reduce the risk of nickel price volatility while cutting reliance on raw materials from China.
For decades, the three major South Korean battery makers have primarily relied on nickel imported from China, South America, Australia, and others. And recently, due to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and Chile nationalizing its mining assets, the price of nickel and lithium has skyrocketed.
Indonesia leads the world in both reserves and mining of nickel, the most important metal by mass in the lithium-ion battery cathodes. As South Korean battery makers focus on high-nickel batteries that contain more than 80 percent nickel content, Indonesia has become an attractive new partner.
Another LG Group subsidiary, LG Household and Health Care (LG H&H), whose business heavily relied on the Chinese market, also shifted its focus to the North American cosmetics market to diversify its business portfolio.
In late September, SK Innovation, a subsidiary of SK Group, which operates two battery plants in Georgia, said that it would spend approximately $4.45 billion through its joint venture with Ford to expand battery production in the United States. The newly established joint venture, named BlueOvalSK, is one of the largest battery plant investments in the United States.
The company expects to initially produce 25,000 tonnes of lithium hydroxide, an especially high-demand lithium product for battery makers, and reach 100,000 tonnes of production per year once the venture is completed.
The plant is expected to produce 1 million tons of ethylene, 520,000 tons of propylene (PL), 250,000 tons of polypropylene (PP), as well as downstream products, with annual sales reaching $2.06 billion.
Lotte Group, one of the five South Korean industrial conglomerates, entered the Chinese market in 1994. Its main subsidiaries, such as Lotte Mart, Lotte Department Store, Lotte Chilsung Beverage, and Lotte Chemical, all have major operations in China.
However, because Lotte used one of its golf courses in South Korea as a deployment site for the THAAD missile defense system, Beijing retaliated by boycotting and restricting its operations in China. The hard-hit Chinese subsidiaries of Lotte Group subsequently evacuated. In March, Lotte Group announced that its headquarters in Shanghai would be liquidated in the first half of the year, according to Aju Business Daily, a South Korean newspaper.