The consuming nature of addiction means that by its very definition, it’s an isolating chronic disease. It manifests in various forms that permeate the fabric of society, destroying lives, families, and communities. As explored in previous articles in this series, the rates of addiction are running rampant in countries around the world and the misconception that some addictions are worse than others has left the door open for an explosion of seemingly “innocent” addictions.
Misunderstandings and myths around addiction are part of the problem: A person addicted to gambling, for example, may be better able to maintain a job or appear healthy, but they remain 15 times more likely to commit suicide than their non-addicted peers.
Ironically, social media that was “sold” on the promise to bring us closer and provide connections in an ever-expanding world has left us more isolated and divided. The ease and addictive excitement of our social media feeds have stolen the time we need for face-to-face interactions. We are left with a mild depression that erodes our will to get out in the world.
Adding insult to that injury, healthy social contact is the most essential aspect to a successful recovery from addiction.
For parents, that might be limiting their child’s screen time or discussing the dangers of addiction.
It’s important to acknowledge that the greatest factor in addiction is pain. People find relief from suffering in the addictive behavior, even though it increases their suffering afterward. For people who have suffered trauma, the urge to escape their suffering can be overwhelming.
More importance needs to be placed on rehabilitation when substance abuse and alcoholism have been identified. This approach will save lives, cut costs, and reduce crime in the long term.
Being a boss, colleague, parent, partner, caregiver, and community member can be tough. Being so many things to so many people while neglecting your own needs will undoubtedly affect the other relationships you hold dearly.
Having self-awareness and self-compassion is vital to breaking the generational trauma cycle so that you don’t pass it on to your children.