Anchoring yourself to a secure job that you can depend on for the rest of your professional life used to be a popular option. While times have changed — that doesn’t mean that people are too keen on making any radical career changes nowadays. During the COVID-19 crisis, people will do whatever it takes to hold on to a stable job.
The personal SWOT analysis allows you to put things into perspective and take an analytical, data-driven approach to your career. What’s more, you can leverage SWOT analysis during multiple stages of your career change. That way, you’ll see if you’re on the right track, and use the information within to make any adjustments at a moment’s notice.
It’s the kind of flexibility you’ll need to make smarter long-term decisions.
Begin by defining your core strengths as well as the industry-specific strengths you have acquired thus far. Next, identify any innate weaknesses you might possess as well as the potential weaknesses that may come to light depending on the industry and field you’re interested in.
Continue by analyzing the industries and noting down as many opportunities as possible. These opportunities should pertain to job availability, salary potential, professional growth and advancement, networking, potential entrepreneurship down the road, and more.
Finish off the SWOT analysis by being honest with yourself and analyzing the fields you’re interested in. Pay attention to immediate, long-term, and potential threats driven by socio-economic, technological, and pollical changes. Armed with this information, you can easily narrow down your search and start networking with the right people.
During the pandemic, the chances are that nobody will want to meet with you in person. By the same token, they won’t be inclined to waste their precious time teaching you the ways of the industry. That’s okay, though; you can always use communication tech to compensate. You’ll be able to make networking more efficient, learn from the best, and most importantly, not waste anyone’s time in the process.