“We have an industrial capacity that’s limited. In other words, we can only get so many ships off the production line a year. My goal would be to optimize those production lines for destroyers, for frigates, for amphibious ships, for the light amphibious ships, for supply ships,” Gilday said.
“We need to give a signal to industry that we need to get to three destroyers a year, instead of 1.5, that we need to maintain two submarines a year. And so part of this is on us to give them a clear set of—a clear aim point so they can plan a work force and infrastructure that’s going to be able to meet the demand. But again, no industry is going to make those kinds of investments unless we give them a higher degree of confidence.”
The Navy’s new Constellation class frigates are ramping up production starting this year. The Navy has serious problems it needs to rectify.
“In July 2017, we found that problems with quality, completeness, and reliability persisted when ships were turned over to the Navy’s fleet.”
It could take at least 20 years to achieve the mixture of manned and unmanned vessels that the Navy hopes to achieve, but that could be too little, too late to prevent China from taking Taiwan. Some estimates suggest that Xi Jinping could move on Taiwan between now and the 2024 election.
China’s exercises last month around Taiwan showed that its capacity to blockade Taiwan and threaten Japan is on the rise. The United States has enjoyed naval supremacy since World War II, but the latest developments had the U.S. Navy looking like the underdog. Gilday noted that the current U.S. fleet is too small and spread across too few platforms to effectively confront the Chinese. It needed to be spread out more effectively “from the seabed to space,” Gilday said.
“There are plenty of lessons to be learned from Russia-Ukraine and among them are you need to come at an adversary differently than traditionally you would have in the past,” Gilday said. “We’ve provided them with Javelin missiles, so you’ve just got to think of better ways to get after the problem quicker.”
These shortcomings mean the Navy must compensate by increasing its focus on fleet assets it deploys in the Western Pacific. It requires an increased focus on artificial intelligence and unmanned platforms, and a focus on interoperability with allied fleets.
“We had to think about deception, concealment, maneuver, stealth, and how we apply those technologies,“ Gilday said. ”We had to think about decision advantage, and we have a project ongoing that we think will put us in a position to actually move information to the tactical edge faster than we ever have before.”
“The key to speed in contemporary warfare is the transformational capabilities of cyberspace, both offensive and defensive. The growth of sensor awareness is also crucial, especially for more rapid and assured gathering of data about the targets that must be located, tracked, and attacked. But because military operations in the traditional domains of warfare—air, land, and sea—are dependent on data networks in cyberspace, it has become the controlling domain in warfare,” Sestak wrote.
“The capability to access, exploit, use, misuse, damage, render useless, or just gain information from within battle data networks and netted systems whenever needed is what actually allows for an immediate sanctuary for one’s forces while denying it to an adversary. ...
“The failure to command this new domain of cyber warfare could ultimately mean a lack of relevance for naval force structure, at least against a peer competitor.”
Information is power, and how your force is deployed and knowing where your enemy is becomes key to victory.
Russia-Ukraine also showed the value of international coalitions in the face of aggression. Gilday hopes to increase cooperation with America’s allies such as India, Japan, Australia, the United Kingdom, and so forth as a force multiplier.