That might mean going onto an online job board and finding people willing to pay top dollar for your skills. It could also entail setting up an Etsy store, selling collectible items on eBay, or making small amounts of money by completing short, simple tasks for businesses. Many people pursue such possibilities because they want flexibility beyond what more conventional sources of income offer.
However, others use side hustles to help them put aside more money for retirement. Some freelancers charge $100 per hour or more, depending on their specialties and the market demand. If you take a freelance role, you’re most likely self-employed and will need to periodically submit tax payments rather than having them taken out of your earnings.
You could take advantage of that progressively increasing interest by starting a business related to drones, such as one offering aerial photography or security. Online technology could help by enabling you to promote the company to a wider audience.
You might decide that anything you earn on the side will go toward your retirement or that just a certain percentage will. Setting out those specifics from the start should help you stay committed.
Automation is also starting to positively impact people interested in retirement planning and the professionals that assist them with it. However, it’s important not to view automated tools as replacements for humans but as additional options that might suit your retirement preparation needs.
Additionally, people should not think of automation as a “set it and forget it” option. Most algorithms running these solutions are incredibly advanced, but they’re not guaranteed to be error-free.
However, that process can be prohibitively complicated. Research indicated that more than 54 percent of workers with account balances under $5,000 chose to cash out those amounts rather than roll them over. However, doing that incurs penalties and taxes.
People are increasingly advocating for auto-portability features built into employers’ retirement plans. In short, they would automatically transfer savings to new, active savings accounts in cases where the funds are subject to mandatory distributions.
Some financial experts also believe the blockchain could be instrumental in helping people track their retirement accounts. Blockchain-based solutions may not be automated themselves, but they could complement others that are. For example, a person could use a blockchain tool to verify that an auto-portability tool worked as expected and that their funds are in the correct account.
Elsewhere, Vanguard polled 1,500 people to find out more about their loyalties regarding human-based and robo-advising methods. One of the survey questions asked participants to estimate their annual portfolio returns when using either a human adviser or an automated one. The people only using digital tools estimated returns of 24 percent. They also believed their returns would drop by three percent without using an automated advising platform.
However, technology has made it extremely straightforward to figure out that all-important information with tools like free retirement calculators. These options vary slightly in how they work, but most give users an idea of how much they need to save per year to reach their goals by the time they retire.
Calculators and similar tools can help people become more decisive about the specific things they do to plan for retirement. That’s useful since not all methods are equally lucrative. For example, high-yield savings accounts average just three percent in returns, while the stock market’s returns are often higher over time.
Some chatbots might take questions on behalf of professionals who provide retirement planning services and are looking for new clients. They are already well-established options for supporting an organization’s customer service needs.
Alternatively, they could provide answers to questions people might prefer posing to a chatbot. Employees at one retirement plan provider analyzed three years’ worth of questions customers asked the company’s chatbot. They categorized the queries to determine the most common reasons individuals utilized the service.
The results showed that matters related to 401(k) plans were the most frequent, which was somewhat of a surprise. Grant Easterbrook is a co-founder of Dream Forward Solutions, which offered the chatbot. He said, “We assumed a lot of the questions the AI would get would be around investing, financial concerns, and priorities. Actually, the complexities and headaches of managing your own 401(k) is a much bigger burden than people give credit for.”
Cleo is a chatbot that links with numerous popular banks. The tool lets you ask questions to keep your monthly spending on track. You could say something like, “Can I afford a meal delivery tonight?” The chatbot would respond based on your monthly budget and what’s left of it.
Sticking to a budget can help you form better financial habits that help with retirement preparedness and overall stability. Plus, chatbots make it easier to weigh the pros and cons of potential purchases, getting valuable visibility before those transactions happen. You might say, “I wish I would have realized beforehand that the outfit I splurged on would wreck my budget for the rest of the month.” Chatbots can prevent such scenarios.
The internet gives people instant access to a gigantic assortment of information on any topic imaginable, including retirement preparation. Although users must learn to differentiate between reputable and faulty information, there’s no denying that the internet has had a tremendous impact on how and when people access content.
Someone could go on a site like Reddit and find firsthand perspectives from other individuals in similar situations trying various strategies to prepare for retirement. They might also decide to follow blogs from financial planning thought leaders or regularly visit websites that recommend hot stocks to add to their portfolio.
Technology can also help you narrow down retirement options on a more personal level. For example, maybe you’re interested in learning more about living in a continuing care retirement community (CCRC) as you age. Statistics indicate approximately 80 percent of these facilities are nonprofits. They usually provide three levels of care, ranging from independent living to total assistance with daily tasks. You might start researching which facilities have the amenities you want and offer desirable locations.
The internet substantially changed that through websites and search engine listings. It only takes interested persons a few minutes to find advisers in their area and read about their experience and qualifications.
Advisers who use technology effectively are better able to market to different demographics. That’s crucial, especially since people start retirement planning at numerous stages of life.
One poll found that two-thirds of people from the millennial and Gen X generations have started planning for their retirements. That’s also true for 42 percent of the Gen Z population. The research also showed that people feel uncertain about the process regardless of age and need guidance. That sentiment opens possibilities for retirement planners to help. They’ll be best able to do that when they understand the needs of people from various age groups.
While commenting about the study, Aaron Schumm, Vestwell’s CEO, said, “In a lot of ways, the pandemic served as a tipping point for the industry. Advisers realized that they needed to adapt to the changing times by using tech, while personal finance and retirement became a hot topic amidst the pandemic, making it a perfect storm for the industry.”
Another finding from the study was that 45 percent of advisers found social media more effective now than in previous years. Plus, 25 percent said it was their most effective way of reaching out to customers. Brian Guerra, Vestwell’s vice president and head of marketing, explained that social media offers mutual benefits.
Alternatively, if you don’t consider yourself tech-savvy currently, that’s no problem. Consider starting small, such as by using a retirement calculator or a budget tracker. Once you become accustomed to how those work, you’ll likely feel more confident about expanding your adoption of technology.