Technically, procrastination means “to delay the task initiation or completion despite expecting to be worse off for doing so.” Now researchers, with the help of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), know that procrastinators have distinctly different brains.
Fortunately, the brain is ever-changing and can reshape itself as we reshape our habits. To this end, you can ward off procrastination by taking stock of your weaknesses and dealing with them.
For most people, a major weakness point is today’s screen technology. The profusion of apps and social media offers an enticing blend of triggering emotions like fear, awe, and anger, combined with the promise of novelty. We are compelled to keep exploring the news, checking out online shopping sales, playing games, looking at aspirational photos on Instagram, or indulging a myriad of other distractions.
“Saying, ‘I’m going to lose 60 pounds in two months,’ is not realistic. So, make your goals attainable, keeping the end goal in mind,” says Wayne Pernell, who has a Ph.D. in clinical psychology and heads success coaching consultancy DynamicLeader, Inc.
“You feel like you can’t possibly start that big, important thing until you resolve some moderately related smaller thing first,” explains Palmer. “So, a procrastinator might say things like, ‘I can’t update my website until I look at all 8,579 templates that exist to ensure I am picking the perfect one,’ or, ‘I can’t clean out my closet until I lose 10 pounds.’”
And be realistic about how much of it you can actually accomplish. You are likely setting yourself up for failure if you expect to grind away for eight hours and plough through the entire task.
“We can really only work in bursts of 60–90 minutes in any kind of productive, effective way,” says Heather Hersh, PsyD, a well-being consultant and coach.
After working on the thing you don’t want to do, reward yourself, she advises. It’s almost like parenting yourself toward more responsible behavior. “You engage in a less desired behavior, and then you allow yourself to engage in a more desired behavior,” she says. “You did homework and then you could go outside and play. With trying to be productive, you could have these 60- to 90-minute bursts and then allow yourself, as a reward, to look for that new sweater that you want.”
“If you want to be healthier, setting aside an hour for the gym or working out can be put off over and over” despite your healthy ambitions, says Palmer. “If you instead say, ‘I will do one squat when I brush my teeth,’ or while you wait for your coffee to heat up in the microwave, that can add up.”
“Don’t hesitate to say ‘No’ to others,” says Sapadin—just say it in a pleasant tone. You could say, “‘I’ll be happy to speak with you later. After 7 p.m. would be great, because then I’ll have the time to chat,’” she says.
To remove distractions that encourage procrastination, Pernell suggests saying to yourself, “‘I need a plan so that I don’t spend much time checking my email or looking at whatever on my phone,’” he says. “You do what’s called ‘block time,’ setting specific time parameters to focus on one thing at a time.”
Often, when we think of that important project or task, we feel uncomfortable because of uncertainty about how to accomplish the task or because we doubt our ability to complete it. Instead of staying with the difficult feeling and making whatever progress is possible, we procrastinate. Learning to accept and tolerate those difficult feelings is the most essential way to get past our procrastination tendencies.