“Beijing has proven time and again their willingness to leverage tech production capabilities for economic and strategic advantage,” said Robert O'Brien, former national security adviser.
“We’ve seen enough from [Chinese leader] Xi Jinping and the CCP in recent years to understand that Beijing cannot be trusted to lead this critical industry.”
5G is the newest technical standard for cellular networks. Its associated technologies will form the basis of telecommunications infrastructure for the near future and widely affect internet-oriented products and services.
“As we acknowledge great power competition between the United States and China, we must renew our focus on maintaining U.S. technological and global leadership, and support continued innovation in this country,” he said.
“5G does not come without its own security issues. Global networks and technology [are] a key area of competition among nations.”
As such, O’Brien considered it vital that the United States lead 5G development globally—ahead of China—to ensure that it’s used according to the principles of democratic societies and to prevent its cooption by authoritarian regimes.
“As is the case with the adoption of any new technology, early adoption of 5G will allow the U.S. to establish the normative behavior, the rules of the road so to speak, across the spectrum [from] repurposing, regulation, supply chains, and broader cyber strategies,” he said.
“How the U.S. approaches access to the spectrum required to operate successful 5G networks will do much to determine the outcome of the technological competition with China, and this is a competition we cannot afford to lose.”
“There’s ample evidence to suggest that no Chinese company is independent from the Chinese government and the communist party of China,” he said.
It’s imperative that the United States work to prevent the CCP from achieving “global domination” of such technologies as quantum computing, artificial intelligence, and autonomous systems, according to O'Brien.
“What we can’t do is allow the Chinese Communist Party to assume a role of leadership over the global tech industry,” he said. “It’s not only dangerous for the United States, but it’s dangerous for the world and especially dangerous for our allies.
Unlike the economic challenge posed to the United States by Japan in the 1980s, O’Brien said the threat of the CCP went far beyond economics and into issues concerning the very nature of the American way of life and the continuation of individual liberty.
As such, he called for the creation of a national 5G policy to create new infrastructure using diverse spectrums of 5G broadband to ensure usability and resiliency.
In all, he underscored that 5G was just one key battle in a much larger struggle between the United States and the CCP. It’s a struggle to gain dominance of the technological industrial base and to govern the future use of information, he said.
“We must thwart the CCP from taking up the torch of innovation and leaving our nation, our national security, weakened,” O’Brien said. “Our economic security will be entirely disrupted if China’s desire to displace the United States [led] order is realized.