This year’s bear market attack has spared few industries. High flying technology companies have been especially hard hit by the impact of rising rates on valuations and fears of a global economic slowdown.
Even mega cap tech names have been dragged down by the selling pressure. The good news is that the 2022 tech wreck has created attractive entry points for some of the world’s most beloved companies.
Although management lowered its Q4 guidance due to unfavorable foreign exchange effects, another period of bottom line growth is expected. When Microsoft reports results for the final quarter of its fiscal year next week, the Street will be expecting EPS of $2.30 representing 6 percent growth. Not a huge finale, but one that would cap a year of 20 percent profit growth despite the challenging macro backdrop.
More importantly, Microsoft will probably again show that its businesses are doing well across the board. Regardless of how the near-term economic winds blow, enterprises will be spending on software that drives cloud transformation, remote workforce collaboration, and business intelligence—plus the addition of Activision Blizzard should strengthen the gaming division.
Like its mega cap tech peers, the former Google has been weighed down by higher expenses as it expands into new markets and emerging technologies. The relentless legal pressures it faces from its dominant search position have also elevated the stock’s risk profile in a market that has been risk-off for most of the year.
After a stellar 2021 led by pandemic advertising demand, Alphabet will continue to face difficult comps. The consensus estimate for 2022 EPS points to little or no bottom line growth. But after the reset button is pressed this year, the outlook is brighter for 2023.
Analysts are projecting 18 percent profit growth next year. That’s because companies of all shapes and sizes are expected to spend on digital advertising in conjunction with their transition to E-commerce. Despite plenty of challengers, Google is still the place to be for online advertisers.
The broad market selloff has been tough on one of the pandemic’s biggest winners. With physical stores reopened, the reality check of normalized growth has set in. Amazon recently recorded its lowest sales growth in approximately 20 years. As a result of the slowdown, management has shifted its focus towards improving productivity and cost efficiencies as consumer spending patterns moderate.