Financial markets will digest a wide range of data this week, including the much-anticipated report on second-quarter gross domestic product (GDP). Investors also will closely monitor the results of the Federal Reserve’s July policy meeting.
Regional Fed surveys, housing numbers, consumer indexes, and labor and inflation figures also will be released throughout the week.
Bank of America’s baseline forecast is a recession, citing new price pressures in 2022 and 2023.
In the first quarter, the U.S. economy contracted 1.6 percent. If the second quarter also shows a negative reading, the country would be in an economic downturn, based on the standard definition of recession.
Ahead of the GDP report, the White House has attempted to downplay a potential recession.
“Recession probabilities are never zero, but trends in the data through the first half of this year used to determine a recession are not indicating a downturn,” the White House wrote.
Following the sizzling 9.1 percent inflation reading in June, the market had raised its bets that the central bank would pull the trigger on a full-point rate increase. However, the chances of a 100 basis-point increase in the benchmark fed funds rate, which would be the highest since the 1980s, have dwindled over the past week.
“For now, odds heavily favor a 75-basis-point hike, and markets will be eager for further clues during [Fed Chair Jerome] Powell’s post-meeting news conference,” Sette wrote in a note on July 25. “A Fed surprise—more hawkish in the face of economic data—or weakened earnings from tech bellwethers could be a trigger to retest market lows.”
But if the United States is in a recession, it will be a challenge for Powell to reaffirm the central bank’s commitment to lowering the target inflation rate to 2 percent, while facing a slowing economy, FXStreet senior analyst Joseph Trevisani says.
New orders dwindled, to negative 9.7, while the capacity utilization index was unchanged, at 3.5. Prices and wages rose at a modest pace. Employment and shipments picked up this month. Business expectations for manufacturing activity were mixed.
Survey participants highlighted an industry that’s experiencing a notable slowdown in activity, particularly in the building and construction market. Business leaders noted that they haven’t seen inflation come down yet, and other respondents added that they “cannot find the qualified people to expand our output.”
The lack of certainty in the supply chain has weighed on businesses, according to one individual involved in machinery manufacturing.
“We solve one issue, only to see another supplier give us bad news with delays/pushouts,” the survey respondent said.
But President Joe Biden’s paucity of support for the domestic energy sector also is adding a great deal of uncertainty for oil and gas firms.
“President Biden going overseas to beg for more oil supply instead of working with the domestic producers really adds uncertainty to the domestic producers and their budgets. This will affect our plans dramatically for expanding our business,” another respondent stated.