Cuba sits 90 miles offshore from the United States, a global superpower. It was an ally of the former Soviet Union, a communist regime that competed with the United States for global power and influence from 1945 to its collapse in 1991.
Likewise, from 1949 until today, Taiwan has been a U.S. ally located about 100 miles from the mainland communist China regime. This global superpower is also competing with the United States for control and influence over the world.
In 1962, Havana’s alliance with Moscow was a critical asset for the Soviets in several ways. Cuba was an ideological thorn in the side of the United States, as it showed the world, and especially the region, that American power had its limits, even in its own front yard.
Cuba’s communist revolution also showed the world that Russia’s power extended all the way to the Americas. As a result, Russia’s influence and military support spawned movements and governments sympathetic to the Soviet Union across Latin America. Most notable were Chile, Peru, Argentina, Nicaragua, Brazil, and of course, the one-time jewel of the region, Venezuela.
The blockade forced the Russians to either escalate the situation by engaging the U.S. Navy 90 miles off the coast of the United States or stand down. If Moscow sought to break through the blockade, it would be viewed as starting World War III or at least facing the possibility of a nuclear attack.
It was a lose-lose situation for Moscow. If the Russians attacked the U.S. Navy, they’d be seen as the aggressors in a naval battle against the United States. That would be bad enough. But they would also most certainly lose that battle and suffer both a military and ideological defeat. Worse, engaging the U.S. militarily could also trigger nuclear escalation.
But what if China decided to deploy a naval blockade around Taiwan? What if Beijing declared that any violation of the blockade, or associated airspace, would be considered an act of war?
More to the point, would the Biden administration be prepared to break such a blockade were one to manifest?