Detoxing from vaccines is a process without a definite timeline. Think of it as an ongoing journey. Toxin accumulation, especially heavy metals like mercury, can take a long time to remove from the body. Vaccine toxins can be cumulative, building up with each vaccination, adding to the toxin load we acquire from the enormous amount of environmental toxins we encounter every day.
If you’ve been vaccinated and suffer from serious vaccination damage, you’re best off living a lifestyle that promotes detoxification for the rest of your life. The truth is, you may never be able to dispel all of the toxins that have caused the damage. Living the healthiest possible lifestyle may be your only way to live symptom-free. But then again, to one degree or another, this is true for everyone.
Clearing the vaccine injury with naturopathic and homeopathic remedies is an option. The time between the beginning of the protocol and full recovery is dependent on the severity of the damage, the length of time the damage has been severe, and the amount of suppressive therapy that was administered (pharmaceuticals). All pharmaceuticals will need to be flushed from the body, and the damage they caused must be healed as well.
Consider that the preservatives are designed to kill or prevent the growth of microorganisms. That’s what preservatives do. But vaccines need to do this while preserving the antigen. So we’ve got an antigen, which of course is toxic to the body, and we have a preservative, which is generally very heavy and very toxic that is designed to kill organisms, and we have ingredients designed to cause damage so that the immune system is aroused. It doesn’t take a scientist to understand how damaging this can be to the body, especially when repeated over and over.
Some of the damage is due to the sheer accumulation of toxins, some of the damage is due to the immune response, some of the damage is due to dumb luck of where the toxins settle within the body. It should be noted that these toxins can shift at any time, which is why vaccine injuries can occur days, weeks, and even years after the actual vaccination.
A person who would willingly administer or receive an immunization is a person who does not fully understand the importance of microbes in our biology, how the immune system and natural selection works, and how toxins affect biology.
We’ve got formaldehyde (a probable human carcinogen), mercury (a neurotoxin and the second most toxic substance known to man), aluminum (a known neurotoxin, 75% of which is retained in a newborn and up to 40% in an adult, stored in the kidneys, spleen, liver, heart, brain, lymph nodes, and muscle), cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (a hazardous substance), MSG (a neurotoxin), 2-Phenoxyethoanol (a hazardous toxin), and polysorbate 80 (a toxin associated with serious adverse effects including death), and this list is not complete.
Many of these toxins are synergistically toxic, for instance thimerosal’s toxicity is multiplied by the presence of aluminum, and some antibiotics. You can have harmful reactions with your immunizations from past vaccines.
Generally, the healthier the individual is prior to the shot, the less severe the reaction. The directions in the package insert (package inserts that provide medical directions to the doctors and information for the patients) specifically say not to vaccinate a sick child.  Vaccinating sick children and adults dramatically increases the risk of an adverse reaction.
Minor vaccine damage typically includes fevers, ear infections, sinus infections, diarrhea, and other similar symptoms. This is the body’s attempt to discharge the vaccine matter. Often these reactions are suppressed with antibiotics and other drugs. When antibiotics are given, the gut becomes diseased with fungi and antibiotic resistant pathogenic microbes. Vaccine ingredients alone can still cause diseased intestines due to their powerful antimicrobial nature.
It should be easy to understand now why the majority of vaccine toxins will have to be expelled from the body before the body can quit reacting to the disease the vaccine was intended to protect against.
Vaccine ingredients can also cause severe allergic reactions to certain proteins that have been injected into the body, creating an immediate allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) or a food sensitivity like a peanut or egg allergy. The body will not stop reacting to the allergens until the body has expelled the vaccine ingredients and has been returned to full health.
Vaccines severely distort the balance of minerals in the body, which causes vitamin and other nutrient imbalances as well. This leads to a weakened endocrine system, which causes hormonal imbalances and poor brain function, along with fatigue. Eventually, if the gut is not healed, the body will deteriorate into an autoimmune state. (Sometimes this happens very quickly and other times very slowly.) Almost all disease is based on inflammation. Vaccines are designed to cause an immune response, which causes inflammation. Until the vaccine ingredients are expelled from the body, the body is in a constant inflammatory state. It’s no wonder multiple sclerosis, cancer, fibromyalgia, lupus, diabetes, and so many other autoimmune diseases can be tied back to vaccinations.
Understanding basic biology, how cells function, and what just a few of the vaccine ingredients do (as proven by science), one can only conclude that vaccines are toxic to the body. Again, if you think vaccines are “perfectly safe” or “healthy” you do not understand health, and consequently it will be much more difficult to get well.
Other common vaccine damage symptoms include, but are not limited to, anaphylaxis, fever, convulsions, coughs that do not resolve, cramps, decomposition of the blood, developmental delays, degenerative conditions, acne, ADD, ADHD, food allergies, seasonal and environmental allergies, Asperger’s, asthma, autism, cavities, colds and flus (often times ongoing), confusion and disorientation, digestive problems, diphtheria, ear infections, eczema, emaciation, epilepsy, eruptions, head banging, behavioral problems, cancer, headaches, hepatitis, hives, inability to eat various foods, inability to focus, insomnia, learning disorders, liver and kidney problems, measles, neurological deficits, polio, repetitive illnesses, meningitis, multiple sclerosis, neuralgias, restlessness, rheumatic conditions, septicemia, shingles, shock, SIDS, skin eruptions, sleeping all the time, sleeplessness, tendency to get sick, tics, violent outbursts, and warts.
The reason vaccines cause damage and the body can react with so many different diseases and ailments is that vaccines aggravate the immune system and the vaccine toxins build up; they do not easily dissipate.
Some of our favorite brands include Shillington’s Organic Solutions, Wise Woman Herbals, Gaia Herbs, Thorne, Progressive Labs, Pure Encapsulations, Douglas Labs, Standard Process, Allergy Research Group, and Professional Complementary Health Formulas. Green Lifestyle Market sells most of these brands, but not all. With Shillington’s products, we also give the recipe whenever possible so you can make the tinctures, teas, and other formulas yourself. If you’re choosing to use a product from another brand for the purpose of use in this protocol, make sure the ingredients are clean and potent! There’s a lot of junk out there, so shop carefully.
Vegetables should be varied and plentiful. Eat a large salad every day with lots of different vegetables. Try introducing new vegetables and fresh herbs into your salads each shopping trip. Food has synergistic properties, and this is especially true for vegetables (and fruits that are known as vegetables, too).
A healthy diet consists of a minimum of 80% raw fresh produce with many more vegetables than fruits. Add herbs into your cooking like garlic, oregano, cinnamon, turmeric, and other spices and herbs with amazing health benefits. Try to find the whole herbs, like turmeric and ginger root and cinnamon bark, as opposed to the powdered versions. Your food will taste much better, and your body will feel the difference, too. Cilantro (coriander), garlic, and parsley are well known for their ability to chelate metals and they have many benefits including huge immune system boosting properties.
Eliminate refined foods, smoking, (including marijuana), and limit or eliminate anything else that can introduce heavy metals and other toxins to your body. This, unfortunately, can include rice and many kinds of fish. These are normally fine foods for health, but they are too often contaminated with heavy metals. If you do eat rice or fish, do your research and find the brands that have been proven clean (arsenic in rice) and the fish with the lowest contamination (mercury). Avoid root vegetables and herbs that are not grown in clean soil. This means choosing organic vegetables and avoiding all vegetables grown in China! The majority of garlic sold in the U.S. is grown in China and it is often highly toxic.
Eat lots of vegetables rich in sulfur compounds like, cabbage, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, bok choy, broccoli, onions, shallots, garlic, and leeks.
If bowel movements did not come easily, especially for anyone who eats raw produce and other fiber rich foods, hypothyroidism may be a problem. It is very common for mercury to affect the thyroid. If your thyroid function is fine, the next likely reason for difficult bowel movements with a proper diet is a magnesium deficiency. (This deficiency is likely to correct itself with a proper diet.)
Wellness does not happen without balanced intestinal flora. Taking a probiotic and supplementation known to kill Candida and other yeast can balance the flora. The intestinal cleanse also balances and kills Candida and other parasites. Any probiotic should be formulated or encapsulated to pass through stomach acid alive.
Don’t take niacin for too long. Taking any one single B vitamin for a long time causes an imbalance or deficiency of other B vitamins. Long term, high dose use of B3 can also damage the liver.
Turbocharge the immune system with echinacea, oil of oregano, high dosages of highly bioavailable vitamin C, and enzymes. Our top two recommendations for vitamin C are Total Nutrition Formula and liposomal vitamin C. Echinacea of high quality creates a “fuzzy” feeling on the tongue. These supplements are especially beneficial for antioxidant support and immune support, perfect for anyone prone to infection and dealing with detoxification burdens. Cayenne, garlic, goldenseal root, and burdock seed and root, are all powerful blood purifiers. Clean blood equals a stronger immune system.
Make sure fats are balanced and the body has enough vitamin D. This is essential for healing and for building a strong immune system, as well as enabling the body to properly assimilate other nutrients.
Digestive enzymes break down food. Plant enzymes break down food in the pre-digestive phase of digestion before stomach acid inactivates them. Metabolic enzymes, also known as systemic enzymes, break down foreign proteins and fibrin and clean your blood of impurities. Consider the ramifications of this. Fibrin builds up when the body is damaged. It’s an important part of the healing process. Enzymes eliminate this scar tissue. Enzymes also eliminate viruses.
Everybody can use more enzymes. We cannot get an optimal amount in our food unless we grow most of our own food with best practices to produce the most nutrient dense crops. Even then, we could still use more. Our body produces enzymes, but only a finite amount. The more foods we consume that are void of enzymes, the more we use up our finite supply.
Enzyme supplements fall under two categories: digestive and systemic. Digestive enzymes are taken with food to help digestion. There are also enzymes in raw foods that make it easier to absorb and properly assimilate nutrition.
Systemic enzymes (pancreatic enzymes, proteolytic enzymes, metabolic enzymes) are a bit more complicated. Getting enzymes from the digestive tract into the bloodstream isn’t easy. Enzymes released in the stomach will help digest food but will not survive the stomach acid. This is why systemic enzymes are typically offered in an acid-resistant capsule. The capsule is designed to release in the more alkaline environment of the intestinal tract. As long as the enzymes are taken on an empty stomach, the results have been shown to be spectacular.
Systemic enzymes have been used to treat problems and successfully eliminate ailments ranging from physical injuries, arthritis, heart disease, cancer, high blood pressure, autism, herpes, HIV, (seems to work against any virus) fibromyalgia, asthma, and so much more. Most of the research has been published in non-English language journals. This systemic use of oral enzyme supplementation is just beginning to take off in the United States.
There are no reported side effects with systemic enzymes. Massive doses do not cause any problems or side effects, unlike high doses of pharmaceutical drugs or extremely high doses of supplements and herbs. The initial dosage, which is often one potent enzyme pill taken three times daily, 45 minutes before or 45 minutes after a meal, can be raised by three tablets daily every few days until the desired therapeutic response develops. A person given more than 3700 enzyme tablets in one day experienced diarrhea, but this was attributed to the capsules, not the content. The only side-effects from the enzymes themselves will be reduced inflammation and reduction of damaged and decaying cells, fibrin, viruses, and other proteins that have been introduced from a leaky gut or the body’s own mutated proteins (which happens under stress).
Enzyme supplementation is not a quick fix, but over time, they do produce amazing results. Consider systemic enzyme supplementation for repairing the damage done to the body from vaccines, infections, toxins, or anything that would cause any damage. Enzymes can help the body to reverse its age. What is age if not accumulated damage?
The benefit of concentrated herbal and supplemental therapy is their ability to speed up the healing and detoxification process. But most of these protocols do very little for most people when their diet is not right. The worse the diet is, the more supplements are going to be needed to compensate, up to the point at which the diet is so bad that supplements, at best, are merely slowing the decay of the body.
For those who are very sick and cannot function well enough to eat a well-balanced diet, a supplement protocol may be the difference between life and death, or at least, a miserable life and getting well.
These processes must not be hindered by medication aimed at suppressing the symptoms. While it may not be wise to stop taking medications under certain circumstances, the best one can hope for with even the most radical detox and nutrition overhaul program (such as this) is a body that works better. But to actually be healthy, one cannot continue consuming high levels of toxins such as pharmaceuticals.
Some of the above therapies will not apply, and many together may be overkill for the average person just looking to detox on a budget. But take your pick and pull what works for you. Or if you’re particularly ill, do your best to understand the whole process, and incorporate as much as you can that works for your budget and your health. Regardless of the ailment, this protocol can heal almost everyone if practiced long enough. Vaccines damage us from many different angles, and a holistic approach to healing is critical to reverse the damage.