The report “also highlights how the FBI has weaponized the federal government against its political opponents, illustrates how FBI leadership shows a political bias against conservatives, and enumerates instances where senior officials have pressured agents to reclassify cases as domestic violent extremism to fit a political narrative.”
In 2012, Holder became the first Attorney General to be held in Contempt of Congress on both civil and criminal grounds. The vote was 255–67 with 17 Democrats breaking rank to side with the contempt vote.
The DOJ also monitored the personal email and phone of Fox News reporter James Rosen. And it was Holder who refused to prosecute anyone in the IRS targeting of 426 conservative groups during the Obama administration. Holder ultimately resigned but was not prosecuted by the DOJ.
There was the foot-dragging and sometimes outright refusals by the DOJ to release Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s emails in the face of not only Freedom of Information requests but actual court orders.
Then there was the 2016 meeting between Attorney General Loretta Lynch and former President Bill Clinton aboard a private plane on a tarmac in Phoenix—just days before the FBI announced its decision on its investigation of then-presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. The head of the DOJ meets privately aboard a jet on the tarmac with the husband of the party being investigated (and the man who gave Lynch her start in federal politics) just days before the FBI releases its decision, and we are supposed to accept that they talked—for 30 minutes—about grandchildren?
Bill Clinton steadfastly refused to make any comment on the meeting. Lynch said she would accept whatever ruling the FBI made—in effect recusing herself. The media—for the most part—said she should not have had that meeting. Almost none called for her resignation. Then-House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi termed the Lynch-Clinton meeting a “social encounter” and a “serendipitous [meeting] to discuss their grandchildren.”
“Over the past three years, we have been aggressively investigating the causes of the financial crisis. And we have learned that much of the conduct that led to the crisis was unethical, and, in many instances, extremely reckless. We also have learned that behavior that is unethical or reckless may not necessarily be criminal. When we find evidence of criminal wrongdoing, we bring criminal prosecutions. When we don’t, we endeavor to use other tools available to us.”
The real purpose behind the raid appears to have been to allow Clark to be targeted by the January 6 Committee as Democrats continue their quest to smear and intimidate any who dare question the many irregularities of the 2020 election. The DOJ not only is allowing these tactics to be employed, but is an active part of the ongoing effort.
FBI agents also served search warrants for the GOP chairman in Nevada, Michael McDonald, and James DeGraffenreid, GOP party secretary for Nevada, for creating an “unofficial” slate of electors during that state’s recount process.
The actions from the DOJ over recent years have demonstrated its willingness to be used as a powerful weapon—to be deployed against political opponents of the sitting administration—so much so that the DOJ now represents an actual threat to the rule of law and separation of powers.