In recent months, I’ve dedicated many articles to exposing the intentional destruction of our food system. The decision of the Dutch government to impose nitrogen pollution restrictions on farmers is but one example of this. This “green” policy will cut livestock production in the country by 30% in the next year, put farmers out of business, and force them to sell their land.
The government is following the script of The Great Reset, he says, which requires weakening the country, making it more dependent on food imports, and diluting nationalism by taking in more immigrants. And, to make room for immigrant housing, they need to take land from the farmers.
Who in their right mind can believe M&Ms are healthier than whole food — any whole food? According to Food Compass, anything with a score below 30 should be minimized, so based on this tool, you'll be healthier if you replace whole egg, cheddar cheese and ground beef with literal candy, which is nothing short of insanity.
Based on this tool, government would also be justified in restricting marketing of beef, egg and cheese to children, while schools could be encouraged to load M&Ms into school lunches. The whole thing is absurd and indefensible.
So, this tool — just as the Dutch effort to get rid of livestock farmers — is really all about eliminating animal foods from the average person’s diet. And why? Because the ultra-rich elitists who want to rule the world don’t want you to eat real food, be healthy and live long. They want you to be dependent on their processed and patented foods so that you'll be under their control.
Saturated fats such as butter and red meat, on the other hand, are rich in important micronutrients that are hard to obtain elsewhere. In fact, foods high in saturated fats are among the most nutrient-dense foods on the planet, and these nutrients are also highly bioavailable.
The same goes for unprocessed animal foods in general. They can’t be patented, and just about anyone with enough land can raise their own food and become partially, if not fully, independent of major food conglomerates.
That’s how the takeover occurs. They destroy your ability to work, make a living and feed yourself, and provide shelter for you and your family, and then they offer to “help” you by making you dependent on them for your most basic needs. It'll only get worse from there.
The end goal of The Great Reset-pushing elitists is to own everything and control the entire global population through a combination of false flag disasters, social engineering technologies, “green” and “sustainable” development policies, a revamped food system of their own making, and global biosecurity measures.
Unless we want to end up in a slave system we'll never be able to break free from, we have to resist and reject all of these takeover strategies in whatever form they appear, and start building our own parallel systems on the local level.