In the skies, a Chinese fighter pilot swipes his hand across a touch screen, and the automated target-recognition software detects his target in seconds. In China’s Xinjiang region, giant servers that power an immense array of repressive surveillance technologies come to life. In Shanghai, smart city technology connects residents as never before, even as authorities tighten their control over every action of the city’s residents.
All these technologies and more were made possible through the continued involvement of U.S. companies with entities tied to the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).
Sekora now believes that the lessons learned from Project Socrates hold the key to understanding—and reversing—the trend of a declining United States.
The problem, he said, is that instead of meaningfully maneuvering and exploiting critical technologies, the United States has fallen back on what Sekora calls “finance planning,” and has allowed the Chinese regime to co-opt and exploit technology to its advantage at every turn.
According to Sekora, this is a sorely mistaken premise.
“The only way to effectively counter a technology strategy is with a more effective technology strategy,” he said. “Executing anything else is just pissing into the wind.”
Sekora isn’t alone. His sentiments follow warnings from top U.S. military officials that Chinese military technology will advance beyond that of the United States if serious changes aren’t made to the development and acquisition process.
“The pace [China is] moving and the trajectory that they’re on will surpass Russia and the United States if we don’t do something to change it,” John Hyten, then-vice chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in October. “It will happen.”
Despite such warnings, the overarching U.S. strategy for competition with China has remained relatively unchanged. Though more than 400 Chinese entities have been put on a U.S. trade blacklist, the CCP’s strategy of quickly reforming, renaming, and replacing these entities is muddling the effectiveness of such measures and increasing the complexity of the ties that bind the Chinese military with the U.S. business community.
To understand why, it’s necessary to unpack how Chinese laws facilitate technology transfer, how they were explicitly designed to do so, and how U.S. corporations are continuing to feed the dragon.
The CCP enforces strict requirements on joint ventures and foreign businesses with locations on the mainland. Many of the requirements demanded of businesses by the regime’s national security, intelligence, cybersecurity, and data export laws are designed to facilitate technology transfers or to encourage them as a secondary effect.
“Every non-Chinese visitor is tracked and surveilled, both physically and digitally. This is reinforced by CCP laws from 2017 and 2018, which require all American intellectual property and data to be shared with the CCP.”
Under the law, core information technology, critical infrastructure, and important systems and data must be “secure and controllable.” The U.S.–China Economic and Security Review Commission released a report at the time, noting that the rule “would require any company operating in China to turn over to the government its computer code and encryption keys, as well as to provide a backdoor entry into commercial computer networks.”
Such laws aren’t limited to data transfer and intellectual property (IP) access, however. Some laws require that companies actively promote the CCP, its values, and its worldview by requiring that CCP officials work within companies operating in mainland China.
China’s 1994 company law, updated in 2018, requires all Chinese companies and companies with foreign investments to provide for the creation of Party organizations within their companies.
To be sure, the activities of CCP officers within U.S. companies operating in China may fall short of the active political role required of those officers working in Chinese state-backed organizations, whose mission is mandated by the CCP constitution. Nevertheless, political pressure exists and is exerted on foreign companies to give decision-making powers to Party members.
For much of the past three decades, such was seen merely as the cost of doing business in China. But security experts now say that the presence of these CCP officers presents a direct security threat not only to the companies employing them, but to those companies’ home nations as well.
This is because CCP officers work to ensure party access to key data, in accordance with China’s aforementioned data laws.
“The CCP maintains a presence in all American-invested companies to ensure that technology transfer occurs,” Fleming said. “Key CCP personnel are inserted in reporting structures in companies with key U.S. technology, IP, and data.”
The theft or forced acquisition of technology by CCP officers placed into companies that are doing business in China is part of the regime’s broader effort to co-opt global research for its own power, according to Sam Kessler, a geopolitical adviser at the multinational risk management company North Star Support Group.
“The PRC’s [People’s Republic of China] approach to U.S. technology firms proceeds from the premise that foreign firms should be allowed access to the PRC market only because such access will enable the PRC to assimilate technology, and eventually compete with or even overtake U.S. technology,” the report reads. “The PRC thus views foreign firms as a short-term means to acquire technology.”
The report also found that U.S. inability or unwillingness to engage in stronger technology transfer laws has compounded the problem.
The “United States and international export control policies and practices have facilitated the PRC’s efforts to obtain militarily useful technology” and further “reduced the ability to control transfers of militarily useful technology,” the report reads.
That state of affairs remains relatively unchanged even now, some critics argue.
In 2016, yet another subsidiary of Tsinghua Unigroup’s parent company, Unisplendour, entered a joint venture with U.S.-based Hewlett Packard (HPE) to create the company H3C.
“We watch with great concern when industry partners work in China knowing that there is that indirect benefit. Frankly, ‘indirect’ may be not a full characterization of the way it really is. It is more of a direct benefit to the Chinese military.”
The venture, Guizhou Huaxintong Semiconductor Technology Co., is 55 percent owned by the Guizhou provincial government and 45 percent owned by a subsidiary of Qualcomm.
Despite the vanishingly thin divide between civilian and military or academic and government affairs in China, U.S. companies continue to work with the CCP and its subsidiaries in a manner that allows the regime to clone U.S.-made technologies for the purposes of augmenting its own military.
There are also export control laws in place to prevent technologies associated with national security from being directly sold to China and its military. However, emergent technologies such as AI and machine learning don’t have a blanket ban on their exportation, as they have legitimate uses in the civilian sector as well as the military sector.
“Chipmakers like Micron and Intel found ways to continue doing business with Huawei after the Trump administration placed it on the blacklist in 2019,” Kessler said. “These companies may have headquarters in the U.S., but they were able to utilize their subsidiaries and operations abroad to classify their technology as ‘foreign.’
“The theft of American IP has been very costly over the years and has impaired the ability of the U.S. to retain its future edge. At some point, the policies need to meet the level of seriousness of the current and future outcomes from this situation.”
Similarly, Fleming said new laws would need to be created to address a CCP strategy that’s designed to exploit current U.S. export controls.
The traditional means of U.S. economic statecraft directly addressed specific entities: private corporations, military units, or government agencies, according to Fleming. He said this led to the CCP’s development of a strategy to exploit the United States and glean its technology.
“The United States’ current approach leaves holes in its strategy that allows the CCP to acquire or steal the IP,” he said. “The CCP just creates new shell companies or moves through non-blacklisted companies or companies in other approved nations.”
He recalled how the Soviet Union developed and continuously evolved a vast array of hundreds if not thousands of front organizations worldwide. When one was compromised by the United States and its allies, two more would spring up in its place.
The CCP has one great advantage compared to the Soviets, Sekora said: Few people with any real power considered China to be an adversary until very recently.
As such, the Chinese communists didn’t have to carry the burden of constant confrontation and competition that their Soviet forebearers did during the execution of their national technology strategy, he said.
The United States is bound to lose that competition unless it drastically alters its current approach to technology strategy and stops its finance-based planning strategy once and for all, Sekora said.
“China’s technology strategy, like all effective technology strategies, relies upon positioning and adroit maneuvering in the exploitation of technology to generate and maintain the required competitive advantage in the marketplace, on the battlefield, and throughout the political world,” he said.
Thus, even if the United States thwarted the CCP’s ambitions to acquire or steal U.S. military technologies in the short term, the current U.S. spending-based strategy would prove incapable of preventing the CCP from seizing the technological, economic, and political advantage in the long term, according to Sekora.
Without a whole-of-government shift toward maneuvering and exploiting critical technologies, rather than just funding research, Sekora believes it will only be a matter of time before the CCP effectively displaces the United States as the world’s premier superpower.
“The only way to curb the flow of American IP and R&D [research and development] to Chinese companies and military units is to fully counter China’s national and organizational technology strategies,” Sekora said.