The trilateral cooperation will also improve counter-hypersonics, information sharing, and defense innovation.
The “nuclear” in AUKUS is for submarine propulsion, not weapons.
According to the latest AUKUS information, defense cooperation will now include the following: undersea drones planned for 2023; quantum technologies for “positioning, navigation, and timing“; artificial intelligence (AI) and autonomy that improve “the speed and precision of decision-making processes … in contested environments”; advanced cyber, “including protecting critical communications and operations systems"; and innovation, including the integration of commercial technologies for military use.
On nuclear submarines, AUKUS seeks to transfer the technology and knowledge necessary for Australia to maintain and build on these vehicles indefinitely through advanced science and technology education. This will prepare an Australian workforce with nuclear science and engineering, including “skills, training, and qualifications to build, operate, and sustain a conventionally-armed nuclear-powered submarine capability.”
Australia will add an eastern submarine base and nuclear submarine construction yard in South Australia to complement its already-existing western submarine base.
AUKUS meetings are already being held, and attendees include the following: the senior officials group, consisting of the three nations’ top national security advisers; the joint steering groups, which have met in Washington, London, and Canberra; and 17 working groups, nine of which are focused on the nuclear-powered submarines. The other eight address the additional advanced military technologies.
While AUKUS was originally conceived to deter China’s increasing belligerence in Asia, the Russian invasion of Ukraine also makes it essential for the defense of Europe. The United Kingdom is leading Europe in providing weapons to the Ukrainian military, for example, and so needs to improve its defenses against Russia’s hypersonic missiles.
For Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, the deepening AUKUS coordination raised questions from the press about whether Australia would join in a fight against China if Beijing decided to invade Taiwan. He deflected the question, saying that the new military technologies are now necessary because they are part of modern warfare.
The most recent three U.S. flight tests of hypersonic missiles have all failed.
Unfortunately, Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin are punching above their countries’ economic weight because they can ignore voter preferences for social spending, and coerce businesses and government agencies to steal and provide dual-use technology to their defense industries.
Their leadership thrives on an aggressively militaristic approach to politics that, while alien to democracies, is nevertheless ascribed by their propaganda departments to all three AUKUS allies.
Seeing the strength, cohesion, and technological benefits of AUKUS, other countries will surely seek to join. Loyal countries that solidly support democratic values, such as Japan, should be allowed to do so.