Are you still human?
In the near future, such a question may become very relevant.
The gist of Harari’s vision of the imminent humanity paradigm shift is that people will need to cease being “just people.” Instead, we'll need to “evolve.”
This “scientific” nomenclature has the intended effect of degrading humans to nothing more than just one more incidental step in evolution’s natural selection processes. As nothing more than products of evolution, humans have no right or claim to divine rights or to possessing any intrinsic value simply because of their humanity.
Ultimately, his dystopian evolutionary description of our soon-to-be-reality reflects his own atheistic, anti-religion (particularly Christianity), evolutionary, and transhumanism fanaticism.
Here are just a few examples of Harari’s projections of the new reality, which he said is already here and is just waiting to be implemented:
The picture Harari paints as our future is diabolical under even the most positive spin.
Perhaps the question first needs to be asked: “Who is ‘we?’”
Does Harari’s “we” refer to the World Economic Forum (WEF), which is run by the Teutonic figure of Klaus Schwab? Harari is an adviser to Schwab.
So not only will we, according to Schwab, “own nothing and be happy,” but per Harari, we won’t even own ourselves, much less remain ourselves. Our humanity, apparently, is scheduled for genetic modification.
Questions abound.
Who will approve and enforce the idea of total surveillance in the world and under the skin?
When did we lowly homo sapiens agree to be hacked and tracked like livestock?
Will it be forced on us like some kind of “health mandate?” (Can we all read between the lines on that one? Good.)
Where does Harari get off announcing that this is how things will be?
As an atheist, Harari dismisses the possibility of the existence of the biblical God. And yet from a biblical perspective, human genetic alteration isn’t regarded as a positive development by God. Noah is described as a man “whose generations were perfect [genetics]” and as one who “walked with [believed in] God.”
Oh, the irony.
Perhaps, more important questions should be asked.
Who’s Harari speaking for?
Is he a futurist fantasy guy spinning yarn to sell books? Or is he warming us up for the main event that may be even closer than he’s letting on?