Titled “Time for Israel to pivot away from Beijing,” the article said Israel should send an explicit signal that it will stand firm with the United States even though it cannot play a direct role in the U.S.-China conflict.
The political analysis’ co-authors are Jacob Nagel, who had long served as Israel’s national security advisor, and Mark Dubowitz, chief executive of Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a Washington D.C-based think tank.
“This is also the right time to re-evaluate Israel’s relations with Taiwan,” said the authors, adding that democracies should be more cooperative with each other in the face of attacks by dangerous dictators.
Israel established diplomatic relations with the Chinese Communist regime in 1992, and after the Taiwan Strait crisis in 1996, it sold sensitive military weapons to the CCP for a decade, which triggered a political crisis with the United States until the Israeli Defence Ministry restricted the export of military technology to China.
These funds would help Iran to develop and prop up its defense industry and nuclear and ballistic missiles, which would promote terrorist groups to pose a greater threat to Israel and the world. “For Israel, this deal should be another alarming wake-up call: Beijing is not a friend. It is time to pivot away from Beijing,” the article said.
“With Beijing backing Israel’s most dangerous enemies in the Islamic Republic of Iran, Israel sees clearly now that it must support its best friend and to keep a distance from its best friend’s biggest rival,” the article stressed.
Examples include militarization in the South China Sea, massive theft of intellectual property from various countries, and egregious human rights violations.
As Israel’s largest trading partner, China has added key Israeli infrastructures to its Belt and Road Initiative—a CCP influence expansion policy—including some important military facilities, major corporations, and food suppliers.
The CCP repeatedly acknowledged that Israel’s high-technology sector and other major world academic institutions are its vital technology sources, envying Israel’s strengths in artificial intelligence, hypersonic missile technology, autonomous driving, robotics, and big data, all areas the U.S. Department of Defense considers sensitive high-tech.
Another reason Israel needs to stay away from the CCP is that U.S. military, political, and economic leadership is essential to Israel’s security while the CCP is using Israeli technologies to attack and erode the U.S. leadership, which will harm the Israel-U.S. relations, the article said.
The authors believe that Israeli academics and technology companies should deepen their cooperation with Taiwan.
If Israeli companies can gain something in China for a short period of time, they will soon find their business and technology stolen from the Chinese authorities, the article indicated.
In addition, allying with Taiwan is the U.S stance.