To that end, Greene said that the Biden administration was seeking real change in securing vital technologies, but one that did not require the complete economic and diplomatic breakdown that would be required by decoupling with China.
“We want a small fence,” Greene said. “A small but very high fence that protects our core competitive technologies in areas of economic strength while allowing normal trade and investment in those non-sensitive areas.”
Greene said that the rules-based international order was vital to China’s rise as a global power, and that the CCP’s aggression against the United States and Japan was both unwarranted and unproductive.
“I don’t think there’s any two countries in the world that have done more to help China grow economically, and also integrate into the international system,” Greene said of the United States and Japan.
“Japan has been an advocate for a free and open Indo-China for many years,” Tomita said. “This is a vision for business in the region based on a free, open, and rules-based order.”
“We need a certain sense of diplomatic principles,” Tomita said. “These frameworks and principles have served us well in the past half century.”
To that end, Tomita said the there was no need to overwrite the very principles that the current state of affairs was built on, but that some adjustments to policy were needed in order to fix imbalances in security, which Japan would seek to work on with the United States.
“The first thing, of course, is upgrading responsive and deterrent capabilities in the context of our alliance cooperation,” Tomita said.
Green said that the Indo-Pacific was “central” to the Biden administration’s platform and overarching global strategy. He called Japan “absolutely critical” to the continued flourishing of liberal democracies in the region.
Greene said that “intense diplomacy” was necessary to ensure that no diplomatic or military miscalculations might lead to unfortunate consequences for all nations involved. He stressed that issues of global importance, such as climate change and arms control, could serve as a catalyst for cooperation between China and the international community.
With such rhetoric in mind, however, Tomita cautioned that strongly-worded messages and agreements were all well and good, but that peace with China would only be maintained if those words were backed up with concrete action.