Chinese researchers recently developed artificial intelligence technology that can gauge Chinese officials’ loyalty to the ruling Communist Party. The technology could be a tool for Beijing’s anti-corruption campaign to monitor further and purge “corrupt” Party members, indicating the regime’s growing fear of losing its legitimacy and power.
Beijing’s anti-corruption campaign was initialed in November 2012, when Chinese Communist Party (CCP) leader Xi Jinping first came to power.
“Political corruption is the biggest corruption. Some corrupt elements have formed interest groups in the hope of ’stealing power from the party and the state,” according to state-run media Xinhua.
The test, catered to Communist Party members, covers content taught in Party schools, including political indoctrination such as Xi Jinping Thought, communism, socialism, CCP history, and current policies and regulations.
The video introduced a device that could use AI technology to extract the biometric features of CCP members, including facial expressions, electroencephalography, and dermatological features, among others.
After integrating and analyzing personal data, it would evaluate how a person was able to understand the content he/she studied, such as gauging the level of concentration, recognition, and mastery of the various subjects.
The device can “successfully integrate AI technology into the organizational life of CCP members,” said the researchers in the short film. The “organizational life” refers to behaviors the CCP imposes on its members, such as proving one’s loyalty to the Party.
The research team said it designed the AI device for “building up the CCP ahead of the 20th Communist Party Congress.” The Party’s most important political meeting is expected to be held at the end of this year, which will determine whether Xi can secure a third term.
At the time of writing, the WeChat post was taken down.
However, it had been widely shared on social media before it was removed, triggering public criticism of the use of AI to monitor ideological indoctrination, with some denouncing it as “technological brainwashing” and “digital authoritarianism.”
According to public information, the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and the Anhui provincial government established the Hefei tech institute. The institute is managed by the University of Science and Technology of China.
Last year, Xi warned CCP members about the consequences of stepping out of line. In a speech, he pointed out that some officials have morphed into “the spokesmen for various interest groups, power units, and privileged classes.” Xi stressed that no matter who has the problem, they should be “investigated and punished decisively and without mercy.”