It’s a source of constant puzzlement and even growing anger that the United States–both the federal government and industry—continues to help the Chinese regime build up its high-tech sectors. The United States knows full well that China treats it as an adversary. Yet we continue to sell the rope with which to hang ourselves.
So why is the West, particularly the United States, helping to create an industry that could undercut U.S. passenger jet sales? It’s a mystery.
The same is happening in the semiconductor business. There exists a huge gap between current Chinese chip technology and global state-of-the-art chips.
Taiwan, meanwhile, already builds chips as small as five nanometers, and South Korea will soon be producing three-nanometer chips.
As a result, Beijing depends heavily on foreign sources for its microchips and chip-manufacturing technology. In 2020 alone, China imported more than $300 billion worth of semiconductors, more than it spent on buying foreign oil.
Most of China’s indigenous chipmaking technology is old and getting older. China’s top-down, state-led development model has been unable to deliver on Chinese leader Xi Jinping’s ambition of creating a high-end national semiconductor industry. SMIC, China’s leading semiconductor foundry, has only recently begun producing seven-nanometer chips.
So China faces another hurdle in its effort to become a technological superpower, perhaps an insurmountable one. Again, however, the United States is—perplexingly—helping China close the gap.
The Journal noted that less than half of all U.S. exports to China, totaling roughly $125 billion, even required an export license. Moreover, when a license was required, the Commerce Department approved the vast majority of requests. In 2020, 94 percent of all applications were approved, and in 2021, this dipped only slightly to 88 percent.
Therefore, it’s maddening that the export of advanced technologies and high-tech components to China keeps finding exceptions. For example, despite apparent export controls, U.S. exports of semiconductor manufacturing equipment rose from $2.5 billion in 2017 to almost $7 billion in 2021.
As a result, the United States continues to send an array of advanced technologies to China that could help the country modernize its armed forces. More than ever, cutting-edge technologies—particularly those in the information, telecommunications, and computing sectors—have the potential to significantly upscale military capabilities for tasks such as surveillance, intelligence, targeting, and even empowering autonomous systems (such as armed drones).
Moreover, these technologies are mostly embedded in the commercial sector: semiconductors, advanced computing and software, and the like. Artificial intelligence—increasingly seen as a potential game-changer in future warfare—is almost entirely being developed in the civilian research and development base.