Two Republican senators have reintroduced a bill aimed at protecting the genetic data of Americans in response to the threat posed by the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) collection of such data. BGI Group (BGI), a leading company in the Chinese genomics industry, has been repeatedly accused of extensively collecting the genetic data of Americans.
Leading this effort are Sens. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) and John Cornyn (R-Texas), who reintroduced the Genomics Expenditures and National Security Enhancement Act, also known as the “GENE Act.”
The statement further explained that Rubio and Cornyn reintroduced this legislation to “counter the growing threat caused by the CCP.”
“For too long, the People’s Republic of China has collected Americans’ healthcare data without anywhere near sufficient scrutiny,“ Cornyn said in the statement. ”This legislation would confront this growing national security threat and ensure private genetic information doesn’t fall into the wrong hands.”
The NCSC report pointed out that as the COVID-19 pandemic spread around the world, the CCP aggressively marketed Chinese-made testing reagents and laboratories to the world. BGI claimed to have sold virus testing tools to 180 countries and established virus testing laboratories in 18 countries as of August 2020. The report stated that these activities would assist the CCP in collecting the genetic data of foreigners.
A senior U.S. official who has been monitoring BGI’s activities stated that BGI’s “expansion of market share is not for economic benefit but to obtain data.”
CLIA is a required license for providing clinical services to Americans, while CAP is an optional and reputable industry-standard certification. The USCC report indicates that CLIA/CAP certifications open the door to accessing Americans’ health data, including genetic information.
According to Reuters, BGI’s involvement with the Chinese military includes projects such as reducing altitude sickness in Han Chinese to aid border soldiers and collaboration with Chinese military supercomputer experts. In 2015, BGI and the Academy of Military Medical Sciences, a Chinese military institution, were granted a patent for low-cost coronavirus testing. The patent’s inventor was BGI’s Chief Infectious Disease Scientist, Chen Weijun, who has connections with the Academy of Military Medical Sciences. BGI also has collaborations with the National University of Defense Technology in China.
Wang Jian predicted that by 2020, BGI would be able to synthesize a bacterium in just two days, “creating either a beneficial bacterium or a frightening one.” He said, “Humanity has transitioned from cold weapons to hot weapons to atomic bombs and will definitely transition to living weapons.”
The report also mentioned that in 2013 and 2016, the Chinese government conducted DNA collection among minority ethnic groups in Tibet and Xinjiang under the guise of annual health check-ups. Since the end of 2017, this program has expanded to other regions of China.
One month after the report was released, the United States imposed sanctions on two subsidiaries of BGI, citing they are assisting the Chinese regime in its surveillance and persecution of Uyghurs in Xinjiang.