AUKUS, the trilateral security pact between Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States, needs to accelerate and deepen cooperation on key defence technologies, including hypersonics, electronic warfare, and undersea capabilities, in order to effectively counter the Chinese Communist Party (CCP),  a think tank report shows.
“Yet achieving Pillar 2, the technology programs, is arguably both of greater long-term value and more strategically challenging,” reads the report.
“Across a number of technology areas, China’s lead is so great that no aggregation of countries exceeds its share—highlighting the importance of the accelerating effect of greater collaboration between like-minded partners,” the authors argued.
Among the 23 key technologies, ASPI’s talent tracker data shows that 14.2 percent of high-impact authors working in China completed their postgraduate training in an AUKUS country (U.S. = 8.5 percent, UK = 3.8 percent, Australia = 1.9 percent), while 4.3 percent trained in the EU, 1.9 percent in Canada, 1.6 percent in Singapore, and 1.1 percent in Japan.
That knowledge import is highest in defence categories like hypersonic detection (AUKUS 19.5 percent) and electronic warfare (AUKUS 17.6 percent).
The CCP has been accused of stealing U.S. trade secrets and intellectual property for years.
In March, former Acting Under Secretary of Defense for Policy James Anderson said that the CCP has copied U.S. military technology to build its fifth-generation fighter.
The AUKUS coalition said that during a trial in Upavon in Wiltshire, UK, the alliance achieved several world-first breakthroughs with jointly made AI technology. This includes live retraining at the edge of models in flight and the interchange and use of AI models on uncrewed aerial vehicles.
“The work saw the initial joint deployment of Australian, UK, and U.S. AI-enabled assets in a collaborative swarm to detect and track military targets in a representative environment in real-time,” a media release said. “Accelerating the development of these technologies will have a massive impact on coalition military capability.”
Lt. Colonel Richard Craig, who participated in the trial, said that while AI has many benefits for the military, this particular trial demonstrated that the coalition could increase the number of sensors able to engage with the enemy.
“So AI and autonomy will give us an operational advantage by increasing our ability to engage enemy forces at range and increasing our survivability.”
The UK’s Deputy Chief of the Defence Staff (Financial and Military Capability), General Rob Magowan, noted that the coalition’s advances in AI will deliver the three nations’ capabilities to defeat both current and future kinetic threats.
“The trial demonstrates the military advantage of AUKUS advanced capabilities, working in coalition to identify, track, and counter potential adversaries from a greater distance,” said Magowan. “Service personnel, scientists, and engineers from our three nations combined to develop and share critical information during operations to enhance commanders’ decision making.”
Meanwhile, Abe Denmark, Senior AUKUS Advisor to the U.S. Secretary of Defense, noted that “the development and deployment of advanced artificial intelligence technologies have the potential to transform the way we approach defense and security challenges.”