The Biden administration is expanding its restrictions on semiconductor exports to China, seeking to slow the communist regime’s development of advanced military technologies.
The new rules will place additional limits on the types of advanced semiconductors that U.S. firms can sell to communist China, which the documents refer to as an “adversary” of the United States.
More U.S. companies will now be required to notify the government or obtain a license in order to export advanced semiconductor chips or the machinery needed to manufacture them, according to the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS), a Commerce Department agency that oversees issues related to advanced technologies and national security.
“[China] seeks to use advanced computing [chips] and supercomputing capacity in the development and deployment of these [artificial intelligence (AI)] models to further its goal of surpassing the military capabilities of the United States and its allies,” one BIS statement reads.
According to another statement from the BIS, such a move is vital to preventing communist China and other hostile powers from disrupting global security and, in an apparent reference to Taiwan, from destabilizing regional stability.
The new rules thus seek to halt the flow of additional shipments of semiconductors to China, where the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and its state-owned companies seek to use the technology to develop AI, hypersonic missiles, and surveillance technologies.
U.S. chipmakers will also be required to obtain licenses to export their products to several other nations in order to limit the possibility of exporting to China via third parties.
Those chips, the A800 and H800, operated at slower speeds than previous chips but still allowed Chinese buyers to conduct advanced AI research. The new rules will restrict the export of those chips.
A Nvidia spokesperson said the company complies with all “applicable regulations while working to provide products that support thousands of applications across many different industries.”
“Given the demand worldwide for our products, we don’t expect a near-term meaningful impact on our financial results,” the spokesperson said in an email to The Epoch Times.
The Semiconductor Industry Association, a lobbying group representing major chipmakers, said in a statement that it was evaluating the impact of the updated rules.
“We are evaluating the impact of the updated export controls on the U.S. semiconductor industry. We recognize the need to protect national security and believe maintaining a healthy U.S. semiconductor industry is an essential component to achieving that goal,” the statement reads.