Software engineers in Australia will have the opportunity to upgrade their qualifications and learn how to pilot unmanned cars.
The Royal Melbourn Institute of Technology (RMIT), Australia, in partnership with the California-based Udacity, will be offering a new nanodegree in futuristic next-generation self-driving cars, which will be an expansion of their existing transport technology courses.
The new course will be called “Flying Car And Autonomous Flight Engineer,” and it will run over four months with engineers learning skills like quad-rotor dynamics and 3D robot motion control.
The course will cost $2000 (US$1282), and the nano degree will be certified and credited by RMIT and Udacity, which have five years of experience in autonomous vehicle courses.
Nic Cola, the online chief executive of RMIT, told AAP that this course will give engineers the skills to explore a market that has big potential to take off.
“We know there’s a lot of investment going into that space in Australia and some good providers in that space.”
In addition to this course, there will be three other online courses at RMIT, which are deep learning, artificial intelligence and ethical hacking.
However, U.S. investment company Morgan Stanley believes that the so-called urban air mobility industry will be valued even higher at $4.4 trillion.
In Australia, the buzz around flying cars came out in 2019 when Uber published the news that they will have flying rides by 2023 in Melbourne, but in 2020 they sold their stake in the market.
Sydney Seaplanes and Nautilus Aviation also announced recently that they are looking to join the club, with the former planning flights around the city and the latter promising flights above the Great Barrier Reef with vertical take-off-and-landing (VTOL) vehicles in 2026.
At Sydney’s Avalon Air Show, another company Pegasus International, based in Melbourne, also showed off their new VTOL aircraft, which has been earmarked for use by the Australian police force.
Matus Cvengros, an aeronautical engineer trained in Australia and Sweden and currently working in AMSL Aero, a Sydney-based air mobility company, said that this training opportunity is very important for the new industry.
The degrees have gained popularity due to their practical approach to learning and the ability to provide learners with tangible skills that are directly applicable to the job market.
Nanodegrees are designed to be relatively short and intensive, typically taking a few months to complete, making them accessible for individuals who want to quickly acquire new skills and enhance their career prospects.
Key features of the nanodegrees include:
The concept of UAM dates back over a century ago (the early 1900s) and envisions a future where people and goods can be transported through the airspace above cities, reducing congestion on roads and potentially offering faster point-to-point travel.