Republicans on the House Oversight Committee announced they would this week be conducting hearings into multiple issues under the purview of the Biden administration.
According to Oversight Republicans, they will be holding hearings on the origins of COVID-19, the border crisis, the energy crisis, inflation, waste and fraud in pandemic spending, and the Biden family investigation, among other things.
The first hearings on the history of COVID-19, artificial intelligence developments, the border situation, and the depletion of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve begin on March 8.
Chief Border Patrol agents will testify at a border hearing, while the COVID-19 origins probe will involve Dr. Robert Redfield, the former director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), as well as medical and scientific professionals.
Kiran Ahuja, the director of OPM—as well as representatives from the Treasury, Small Business Administration, and the Department of Labor—is scheduled to provide testimony.
Lastly, the committee will examine the Biden family on March 10, following charges that the Treasury Department is “stonewalling” the GOP investigation into the president’s son Hunter Biden’s offshore business transactions.
Jonathan Davidson, the director of legislative affairs for the Treasury Department, will be the only witness in the case on March 10.
Prior to serving as the Economic Nominations Confirmation team head on the Biden-Harris transition team, Davidson spent 10 years as Sen. Michael Bennet’s (D-Colo.) chief of staff.
Border security has also been of particular interest to Senate Republicans after Attorney General Merrick Garland testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee on March 1 that he believes the Mexican drug cartels created the fentanyl crisis “on purpose.”
Ranking Member Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) noted that the drug, which is a synthetic opioid that is 50 times more potent than heroin, is thought to kill more young people than gun violence and car accidents combined.