HIROSHIMA, Japan—President Joe Biden announced a new $375 million package of military aid to Ukraine during a May 21 meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on the sidelines of the G-7 leaders summit in Hiroshima, Japan.
The additional U.S. security assistance marks the 38th drawdown of U.S. arms and equipment for Ukraine, which continues its fight against Russia since Moscow invaded in February 2022, according to the U.S. State Department.
“This security assistance package includes additional ammunition for High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems, artillery ammunition, anti-tank weapons, armored medical treatment vehicles, trucks, and trailers to transport heavy equipment, spare parts, and other field equipment essential to strengthening Ukraine’s defenders on the battlefield,” Blinken said.
“Russia could end its war today. Until Russia does, the United States and our allies and partners will stand united with Ukraine, for as long as it takes.”
“I think no,” Zelenskyy said. “But you have to understand there is nothing. They’ve destroyed everything. There are no buildings.
“For today, Bakhmut is only in our hearts. There is nothing on this place.”
“Russia’s brutal war of aggression represents a threat to the whole world in breach of fundamental norms, rules, and principles of the international community. We reaffirm our unwavering support for Ukraine for as long as it takes to bring a comprehensive, just, and lasting peace,” the group said in a statement.
G-7 countries are the United States, Japan, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Canada, and Italy. Besides Ukraine, the G-7 countries also discussed climate change, artificial intelligence, poverty, economic instability, and nuclear disarmament.
Another major focus of the meetings was China, amid increasing anxiety that the Chinese regime could try to seize Taiwan by force, a scenario that would spark a wider conflict.
The G-7 said they didn’t want to harm China and were seeking “constructive and stable relations” with Beijing, “recognizing the importance of engaging candidly with and expressing our concerns directly to China.”
They also urged China to pressure Russia to end the war in Ukraine and “support a comprehensive, just, and lasting peace.”