While the United States is trying to help all its partners most under threat, including Israel, Ukraine, and Taiwan, the U.S. budget is under strain. In going public about the “axis of evil,” Mr. McConnell is apparently trying to get public support for new spending that will fund the defense of both Israel and Ukraine simultaneously. He dodged questions during the interview about separating the votes for Israel and Ukraine, so members of Congress have more control over what exactly taxpayer dollars fund.
Some Republicans, such as a group in the House of Representatives associated with former President Donald Trump, would prefer to support Israel without voting more money for Ukraine. They argue that over a year and a half of mounting costs in Ukraine, lack of impressive territorial gains, and a rising U.S. federal debt of $33 trillion amid growing annual deficits of almost $1.7 trillion, tough choices are necessary. Some would argue that cutting off U.S. funding to Ukraine would force Europe to increase its historically low defense budgets and fund Ukraine’s weapons needs. That would allow the United States to shift its focus to Asia and the Middle East, which also require stabilization.
“The aftermath of the Hamas terror attack upon Israel could now see the Middle East ignited,” he wrote for The Telegraph on Oct. 23. The inflamed Middle East is distracting the United States from the war in Ukraine and what threatens to become a war over Taiwan. China could use escalation in the Middle East as the opportunity to attack Taiwan, drawing in the United States and “plunging the world into a third world war,” according to Mr. Clark.
While the United States is drawn into conflicts in Ukraine and Israel, Beijing appears to be pushing its allies Russia and Iran into the front of the fighting so China remains above the fray. But Beijing is at least appearing to do its part for its axis partners by increasing the heat on the Philippines in the South China Sea with its floating barrier at Scarborough Shoal in September, and on Oct. 23, its dangerous intimidation of ships that resupply Philippine military outposts on the islands.
As global instability mounts, U.S. resources are increasingly overburdened. But defeating the “axis of evil” is sufficiently important to find new sources of revenue to maintain the strength of all our democratic partners, including Israel, Ukraine, and Taiwan.