The IRS will most likely continue to work, and tax enforcers will still collect their paychecks even if the partisan gridlock on Capitol Hill fails to resolve and the looming government shutdown becomes fact, an official said.
Doreen Greenwald, president of the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU), made the remarks in a press call on Sept. 18, noting that the IRS would probably use funds from the Inflation Reduction Act to remain fully operational in case of a shutdown and continue—without interruption—to go after people who don’t comply with the nation’s tax laws.
Ms. Greenwald added that the NTEU is still waiting for a final plan from the Treasury Department, while adding that she hopes lawmakers will strike a deal to avert a shutdown.
“Until they have a final plan, this weighs on employees’ minds,” Ms. Greenwald said, citing discussions with IRS officials.
The massive bill, which totaled more than 4,000 pages, followed three smaller stopgap measures that kept the government operating until congressional leaders negotiated the final, bigger package.
Congress would need to proceed at an average pace of more than one approval per working day to meet the deadline, with little confidence expressed on Capitol Hill that lawmakers will manage to pull it off.
“It’s important that we continue the pressure to make sure that our leaders, our elected leaders in Congress, do their jobs and make sure that they pass the appropriations timely,” Ms. Greenwald said on the call, referring to the challenge posed by the 11 spending bill approvals that remain pending.
Former President Donald Trump has voiced support for a government shutdown if lawmakers fail to strike a deal to address the nation’s $30-plus trillion in public debt.
“I’d shut down the government if they can’t make an appropriate deal, absolutely,” he said.
The new enforcement thrust is said to focus on higher-earning Americans and big corporations, with the IRS pledging not to increase audit rates for people earning less than $400,000 per year.
This has been an oft-repeated promise in the face of Republican assertions that working-class taxpayers would be subjected to tougher enforcement thanks to the tens of billions of dollars in additional IRS funding.
“The high-income terminology is being used loosely inside the IRS with no common understanding of what the term means,” the watchdog said.
“The IRS does not have a unified or updated definition for individual high-income taxpayers,” the watchdog added in the report, which notes that the IRS uses different definitions of “high-income” depending on context as various IRS programs address different compliance issues across different parts of the filing population.
Also, the IRS continues to rely on old tax examination activity codes adopted half a century ago with the Tax Reform Act of 1976, which used a $200,000 threshold to measure high-income returns.
“This amount is equivalent to more than $1 million in 2023, but the IRS still uses $200,000 as the default high-income threshold,” the watchdog said, adding that the $200,000 threshold is “no longer a reasonable standard for high earners given inflation since 2005.”
Generally, the IRS uses the examination activity codes to plan the number of tax-related examinations. However, since 2019, its Large Business and International (LB&I) division has been using a modified planning method based on resource allocation.One of the watchdog’s recommendations was for the IRS to establish a definition for high-income taxpayers for examination compliance purposes and that, “at a minimum, the IRS should accept the Treasury secretary’s $400,000 directive as the new high-income floor on which IRS leadership can focus enforcement efforts.”The IRS disagreed with the watchdog’s recommendation in a written response to the report that was obtained by The Epoch Times.
The tax agency argued in its rebuttal that a “static and overly proscriptive” definition of high-income taxpayers for audit purposes “would serve to deprive the IRS of the agility to address emerging issues and trends.”