Two years ago, the World Bank scrapped the publication of its annual Doing Business report after World Bank executives were caught pressuring top bank officials to manipulate the data in favor of China. In May, the international financial institution announced that it had created a new ranking system, to be launched next year, that improves upon the scandal-ridden Doing Business report.
For 17 years, the Doing Business report outlined the levels of business regulation in 190 economies.
The World Bank’s new rankings add an important dimension to the scoring process by surveying private companies. Data will be collected directly by sending detailed questionnaires on the subject to private sector experts in all the economies surveyed.
Anders Corr, the founder of Corr Analytics Inc and Epoch Times contributor, told The Epoch Times on Aug. 6: “Beijing is worried because business confidence is down in China, which could lead to a low World Bank score. The CCP is apparently trying to pressure businesses into answering the survey with positive views, which they could be intimidated into saying. This would invalidate the survey by introducing bias, as China would have an artificially higher score relative to other countries.”
Two-thirds of the 570 companies surveyed by the organization said it had become more difficult to do business in China. Three out of five said the business environment had become more politicized. Some have already relocated their assets out of the country or are planning to do so.
In addition, according to information from global financial market data provider Refinitiv, foreigners sold $ 1.71 billion worth of mainland stocks through the Stock Connect in May, up sharply from $659 million in April.
Apart from the slow economic recovery after China’s draconian COVID-19 lockdowns, another direct reason for the flight of foreign capital from China is that the CCP is cracking down on foreign companies using its anti-espionage laws.
According to the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China, two-fifths of Chinese customers or suppliers are shifting their investments out of China.
As part of its efforts to maintain control, the CCP has also demanded that private companies set up communist party branches. Since 2018, it has been mandatory for domestically listed enterprises to set up a party entity. Over 90 percent of China’s top 500 private enterprises now host party units, according to an Asia Times report.
In a low-key tactic, the regime also increasingly takes control of private companies by acquiring “golden shares” in these companies, which often give the Chinese regime board seats, voting rights, and influence on business decisions.