Will the wrong ideas about climate change get you fined, jailed, or even worse?
Could voicing an opinion that questions the facts and fictions that surround the climate change hysteria soon become illegal, as in lawfully forbidden and a criminal offense?
It’s looking like that may become the reality sooner rather than later.
It would be one thing if such a monstrous idea were restricted to a small minority of powerless climate change fanatics, tree huggers, and earth worshippers. Unfortunately, that isn’t the case.
What’s more, this unbelievable and un-American notion is so irrational that it seems impossible to believe.
“They compound the already difficult challenge of the climate crisis by promising to do more of exactly what created this crisis in the first place. So now humanity is inexorably threatened by humanity itself, by those seducing people into buying into a completely fictitious, alternative reality, where we don’t need to act and we don’t even need to care.”
Of course, by far, the greatest threat to humanity has always been humanity itself. This has become especially true in the nuclear age and the era of industrial warfare, bioweapons, and other weapons of mass destruction. Mr. Kerry’s pronouncement of “humanity threatening humanity” is meant to engender an emotional effect rather than to describe some new or unusual circumstance that attaches only to those who question the claims of climate change extremists.
That simply isn’t credible. Don’t nuclear weapons in the hands of Iranian mullahs or the escalating war between Russia and Ukraine pose a greater danger to humanity than a person’s ideas?
Isn’t China’s aggression in the Asia-Pacific region and beyond what needs to be contained and stopped before our right to free speech?
Doesn’t the Biden administration’s cavalier expansion of its proxy war against Russia via NATO pose a greater risk to the world than doubts about the risks of carbon dioxide levels?
And what about the rapidly advancing power of artificial intelligence that, according to Elon Musk, is threatening the future of mankind?
“Should we use criminal law to tackle climate change? The current generation of people alive in the Anthropocene is capable of damaging and degrading the environment in ways that could make humanity go extinct. Postericide is a morally required response to humanity’s changed circumstances in the Anthropocene,” the article in The UNESCO Courier magazine reads.
Actually, it doesn’t matter. The key point is that it appears that neither the Biden administration nor the U.N. seems to have any regard for the Bill of Rights that Americans freely enjoy and exercise. In fact, by the sound of it, it would seem that our constitutional rights will soon be no longer valid, if they haven’t been scrapped already.