NEW DELHI—On diplomatic platforms, China is calling for mutual support and an easing of military tensions with India, but covertly it continues to accelerate its use of cognitive warfare against the subcontinent, strategic analysts allege.
Indian External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar and China’s top diplomat Wang Yi met on the sidelines of ASEAN in the Indonesian capital of Jakarta on July 14. Wang called for support instead of suspicion between the two giant neighbors.
“The two sides should support each other and accomplish things together, rather than wear each other down or suspect each other,” Mr. Wang said.
However strategic analysts call Mr. Wang’s words a bluff and say that since the bloody Galwan Valley conflict, Beijing has stepped up its cognitive warfare against India. Meanwhile, India is taking countermeasures.
“China’s massive efforts at cognitive warfare supported by AI (artificial intelligence) are being applied around the world, at all inflection points, across all the domains [namely] economic, diplomatic, political and military,” Retd. Col. Vinayak Bhat, a former Indian military intelligence officer, told The Epoch Times in a written message.
“This cognitive warfare accelerated against India after Galwan. India has understood the Chinese mind games well and is countering the CCP efforts with countermeasures like pre-stalling, directly countering, indirectly countering, diverting and educating the target audiences.”
The Galwan Valley conflict was a brutal battle between Chinese and Indian forces in June 2020. Fought with sticks and stones, it resulted in dozens of casualties on both sides.
Dr. Clarke is a a senior fellow at the East Asian Institute of the National University of Singapore; Dr. Lin is a former U.S. Army microbiologist now with Feitan College. A former Air Force intelligence officer, Mr. Eads currently specializes in AI for the U.S. intelligence community.
Titled “Enumerating, Targeting and Collapsing the Chinese Communist Party’s NeuroStrike Program” the report alleged that the Chinese program can disable the cognitive capabilities of targets and control their brains.
“There was a sharp statistical increase in Chinese military activity in the South China Sea, East China Sea, Taiwan Straits, and along the Sino-Indian border during the most acute phases of the COVID-19 outbreak in 2020 and 2021,” the report noted, suggesting that China used COVID-19 as a strategic opportunity.
China’s cognitive warfare is often discounted as mere military strategy, yet in reality it is actively being used to further China’s aim of world domination, Col. Bhat warned.
The authors of the recent report described NeuroStrike as the “engineered targeting of warfighter and civilian brains using distinct non-kinetic technology to impair cognition, reduce situational awareness, inflict long-term neurological degradation and fog normal cognitive functions.”
“Three Warfares is specifically designed to enable China to achieve end goals that have traditionally been accomplished by conventional military force through the effective use of psychological warfare, media warfare, and legal warfare,” they said.
The core functions of these three warfares, according to the researchers, include control of public opinion, blunting an adversary’s determination, transformation of emotion, psychological guidance, collapse of the adversary’s organization, psychological defense, and restriction through law.
Col. Bhat said a “lie when told a hundred times becomes a truth,” paraphrasing Nazi propagandist Joseph Goebbels.
After Galwan, he said, the Chinese aggressively used propaganda to lower the morale of Indian troops stationed on the disputed border in the Ladakh region, high in the Himalayas. On the low oxygen, brutally cold front, where temperatures can reach -58° Fahrenheit (-50° Celsius), mind games take on added significance.
One instance of this was a rumor that the Chinese were using microwave weapons against Indian soldiers. The story was said to originate from a professor of international relations at Beijing’s Renmin University, who claimed that Chinese forces had turned two strategic hilltops into a “microwave oven,” causing Indian troops to become violently ill and forcing them to retreat.
Col. Bhat also said the claim was false. At an altititude of 14,000 feet, he said, it was technically impossible for microwave weapons to achieve the kind of impact the Chinese claimed.
Col. Bhat pointed out that Twitter is officially blocked in China; therefore the video was clearly intended to be seen by foreigners.
Col. Bhat expressed doubt at the story, saying it was planted to play with the morale of Indian troops.
In addition, given the political climate of the country, China is unlikely to be able “obtain pro-Beijing partners within India’s leadership that would operate within India to forward Chinese objectives along the disputed border.”
In this context, the authors warned that China could strike New Delhi’s critical information technology systems.
“Given the clear limitations on PLASSF [PLA Strategic Support Force] psychological operations against India, it is possible that the PLASSF will focus more heavily on coercive NeuroStrike capabilities and precision targeting of India’s critical information technology systems, including the Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS),” they said, adding that IRNSS provides real-time positioning capabilities within India, as well as for a 1,500-kilometer radius outside of India.
The game’s message is less than subtle: “When the boxing match starts, all South Asian countries: Bangladesh, Nepal, Srilanka, etc., are on Modi’s side, and by the time it finishes everyone is on Xi Jinping’s side.”
Mr. Bipindra also cited this year’s attack on Sridhar Vembu, one of India’s richest men. Mr. Vembu was appointed to the country’s National Security Advisory Board in 2021.
Many Forbes readers may not have known that at the time, the magazine was controlled by the Chinese.