The San Mateo County Board of Education is suing Facebook’s parent company, Meta, claiming that CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s company has contributed to the mental health crisis among youths by intentionally designing its social media platform to be manipulative and addictive.
The Board of Education added Meta to a complaint it filed on March 13 in the U.S. District Court in San Francisco against a string of other social media giants, including Google, TikTok owner Bytedance, and Snap Inc.
Meta’s headquarters are in Menlo Park, California, a city at the eastern edge of San Mateo County.
“Powerful corporations who wield unmatched, highly concentrated technology in pursuit of profit are knowingly creating this unprecedented mental health crisis,” the plaintiffs wrote.
“YouTube, Snap, TikTok, Meta, and their related companies have carefully cultivated the crisis, which is a feature—not a bug—of their social media products,” they wrote.
“Even with only a small glimpse into what the YouTube, Meta, TikTok, and Snap companies know about this crisis, the public can now fairly conclude that the social media defendants’ conduct was no accident, but rather that defendants acted knowingly, deliberately, and intentionally,” they added.
“Meta unambiguously targets teenagers. In 2018, Instagram committed nearly its entire $390 million annual marketing budget toward teens,” the plaintiffs wrote.
The lawsuit goes on to claim that Meta’s social media platforms are “optimized to exploit the neurochemical reward pathways of users,” and that due to children’s increased desire for “social development, affirmation, and approval from others,” they are led to a “bottomless, endless cycle of feed strolling, liking, posting, commenting, and reciprocating.”
It also claims that Meta’s use of complex algorithms, artificial intelligence, and machine learning promotes “habit-forming” patterns among youths, leading them to excessive use of the platforms.
“Studies have shown that the constant stream of retweets, likes, and shares from these sites cause the brain’s reward area to trigger the same kind of chemical reaction seen with drugs like cocaine,” the study states. “In fact, neuroscientists have compared social media interaction to a syringe of dopamine being injected straight into the system.”
The San Mateo County Board of Education’s lawsuit accuses social media companies of being a public nuisance, of negligence, gross negligence, conspiracy, and unfair competition.
The Epoch Times has contacted a Meta spokesperson for comment.
The lawsuit against Meta comes amid growing concerns among those in the Biden administration over the national security concerns posed by Chinese-owned TikTok.