In France, no public school or government institution asks a student or an employee his or her race, gender, religion, or ethnicity. It’s illegal. “Laïté”: complete separation of church and state.
The French minister of education warned the French to not look at “woke” U.S. multiculturalism, that France teaches the history and culture of France to bind the French in common culture and love of country.
The United States should do the same. U.S. schools shouldn’t teach students the cultures and languages of the countries from which their parents, at risk of life, fled. That’s for parents to do at home. U.S. schools should teach mastery of the English language together with the history and culture of British and American democracy.
Immigrants to the United States can’t believe the extent to which U.S. schools and media mock the country’s foundation by labeling the Founding Fathers racist, misogynist, and class- and white-privileged. Textbooks tell students that Thomas Jefferson wrote the Constitution and owned slaves—one sentence—rather than explain that Jefferson was one of the world’s great geniuses; that the United States is a Jeffersonian democracy, which means every citizen has the vote; and that Jefferson created the world’s first system of publicly funded education. Or that the history of every nation includes abuses, except that the United States was, until very recently, the only nation to apologize for its past and evolve to make amends, which explains why U.S. schools emphasize inclusivity and equal outcomes.
But that’s a huge mistake. Schools are and have always been a reactionary institution, rarely at the forefront of solving societal problems. They weren’t set up to do that. Without lowering educational standards, equal outcomes in education are an impossibility. Students from low social (not economic) backgrounds entering kindergarten with a 2,500- to 4,500-word deficit that increases through the 12th grade can’t compete. The fact that California schools try so hard to change this is precisely why California is losing its teachers.
California is wasting its teachers’ time and expertise and is destroying their desire to teach. For the fall of 2023, San Francisco public schools have a shortage of 900 teachers.
Is it because salaries are low? No, they’re among the highest in the nation. However, teachers choosing to live in San Francisco, Palo Alto, or Mountain View must accept that they won’t earn enough to purchase a large home. The Bay Area, a world center for the future—IT, artificial intelligence, bioengineering, quantum computing, aerospace—attracts the brightest and highest-paid workforce in the world: college graduates with degrees in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM).
Seventy-one percent of Silicon Valley employees are foreign-born. Strivers, specialists, and high achievers. It’s because U.S. public schools don’t provide enough college students with STEM learning.
For the past 50 years, the U.S. Department of Education has been stating that only 36 percent of the nation is proficient in reading and math—which is why the U.S. Navy dropped its entrance exam reading to a fourth-grade level, the level at which most American high school students graduate. It’s no coincidence that so many U.S. university spots are taken by foreign students. They score higher on the SAT exams (in English, a language those students don’t even speak!).
Again, salary isn’t the reason San Francisco can’t find teachers. Teaching is a profession like acting and sports. No one turns down an opportunity to perform. A job in which as one matures, one grows in competence is a profession—the most rewarding career.
Something else is wrong: the dumbing down of education standards! Under political pressure that blames teachers and their Eurocentric curriculum for poor student outcomes (although California teachers are ranked among the best in the nation), school principals and district administrators buckle. When a parent complains that coursework is too difficult or that their child is being singled out for misbehavior, administrators never do the right thing: support their teachers and suspend the students.
In 1970, enrollment in San Francisco public schools was 80,000. Today, it’s 51,790. The high cost of housing explains some of that loss but not all, considering that between 1970 and 2022, the population rose by 100,000.
The only way to eliminate student failure is to raise standards. The only way to deter bad behavior is through punishment. California schools replace punishment with positive behavior intervention—emphasizing incentives (over consequences), restorative justice, conflict resolution, and counselors. Plus, they delve into the child’s dysfunctional home life. Offer a hug or a bag of potato chips?