U.S. businesses are dissatisfied with Washington’s attempts to overregulate firms and its inability to deal effectively with issues such as the border crisis and inflation, the head of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce recently said, while highlighting the dangers of foreign regulation.
“Business demands better from our government. Because when it comes to Washington, the state of American business is fed up.”
Over the past two years, “unprecedented regulatory overreach” has accelerated. Last year, Clark pledged that if the Biden administration does not stop getting in the way of businesses through overregulation, the chamber would “lead the fight to stop it.”
The chamber eventually sued the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).
Clark warned that the chamber won’t hesitate to “do it again” if such actions are necessary to protect business interests, preserve competition and innovation, and position the American economy for growth.
In July’s lawsuit against the FTC, the commerce chamber accused the organization of circumventing due process and utilizing “dubious legal means to achieve preordained ends.” The FTC was accused of potentially coordinating with foreign governments to block mergers that the U.S. law may not have prohibited as well as circumventing civil service laws.
In September 2022, the chamber filed a lawsuit against the CFPB, challenging an update it made to the unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices of its examination manual.
“When regulations are driven by ideological agendas and imposed on business without transparency, accountability, or clarity—government isn’t working,” the chamber head stated.
A survey published in March 2022 by the Texas Alliance of Energy Producers showed that “federal overregulation” was deemed the number-one threat facing businesses in the sector in 2022.
Digital regulations and taxes now target American companies “almost exclusively.” Such actions threaten to choke sectors that are presently the main drivers of economic growth.
For instance, the European Union Digital Markets Act that came into effect in November 2022 aims to regulate tech giants. The law also affects American tech companies such as Google, Amazon, Meta, Apple, and Amazon.
Clark also called on Washington to “stand strong” against China’s intellectual property theft and digital protectionism.
Clark gave the example of GMOs and how they are banned “despite scientific evidence of their safety.” This makes it much harder to feed a hungry world, she claimed. Similarly, nuclear plants are being shut down at a time when clean, safe energy is needed.
Clark asked government leaders to put pressure on the world’s regulatory councils, warning that regulatory overreach “endangers the dynamism” needed for a fragile global economy.
Inflation is another challenge that businesses are facing, she noted. Despite rising prices, businesses still have to pay workers, buy supplies, set pricing strategies, and “make ends meet.”
And if American workers do not procure necessary skills, it will create a labor shortage that can fuel inflation and act as a barrier to long-term growth and competitiveness, she warned.
Clark shed light on Washington’s energy policy which created a “false, binary choice” between energy transition and energy security.
“Let me close with a message to our partners in government today: Do your jobs, so we can do ours. Make government work, so business can keep working ... so we can keep doing the things that society needs, expects, and trusts us to do,” she stated.