On the morning on Aug. 10, the National Security Department of the Hong Kong Police arrested ten individuals, including former staff of the “612 Humanitarian Relief Fund” (“612 Fund”). They were accused of conspiring to collude with foreign or overseas forces to endanger national security and inciting riots. This marks the largest-scale arrest operation by the Hong Kong police since Dong Jingwei, deputy minister of the CCP’s Ministry of State Security, was appointed as the head of the Chinese Office for Safeguarding National Security in Hong Kong last month.
The Hong Kong police alleged that the ten individuals arrested on Aug. 10 were involved in a conspiracy related to the  “612 Fund,” accepting donations from different overseas organizations and providing financial assistance to some organizations supporting individuals who had fled overseas or who advocated sanctions against Hong Kong. The police also said more arrests might follow.
The “612 Fund” has long been under scrutiny by the Hong Kong government. Its five trustees and fund secretary were already arrested in 2022 on charges of colluding with foreign forces.
One of the arrested this time is Bobo Yip Po-lam, a former employee of the “612 Fund.” On the afternoon of August 10, Ms. Yip was escorted by the police to search a bookstore where she works. After staying there for about an hour, the police took away a computer and a few exhibits. Soon when a large group of media personnel arrived, Ms. Yip appeared undaunted under the police escort, smiling at the cameras, and making the “OK” gesture to the media.
Later, in 2012, she opposed the Hong Kong government’s implementation of the CCP-style of moral and national education in schools and served as the spokesperson of the “People’s Alliance Against National Education.” As a “Land Justice League member,” she participated in the defense of Choi Yuen Village, a village that was being demolished to make way for the high-speed rail project. She also opposed the government’s development plans in the northeastern New Territories.
On June 6, 2014, when the Legislative Council was reviewing the early-stage funding for the development of Northeast New Territories, many demonstrators stormed the Legislative Council building. More than 20 people, including Ms. Yip, were later prosecuted for “violating the administrative orders issued under the Legislative Council (Powers and Privileges) Ordinance.” She was sentenced to two weeks in prison and fined HK$1,000 (US$128). She appealed her conviction and sentence to the Court of Final Appeal but was later rejected in 2019 and had to serve her sentence immediately.
In 2019, the anti-extradition protest movement broke out in Hong Kong. At the end of June 2020, the CCP forcibly enacted the “Hong Kong National Security Law” and set up a national security office in Hong Kong. Zheng Yanxiong, the former secretary of the Shanwei Municipal Party Committee who had dealt with the Wukan incident with an iron fist, served as its first director. After Mr. Zheng was transferred to become director of the Liaison Office of the Central People’s Government in Hong Kong in January, the post of director of the National Security Bureau was vacant for more than half a year, before Mr. Dong was appointed.
According to the progress report released by the fund at the end of May 2020, the fund’s total income was more than HK$140 million (US$18 million), with a total expenditure of about HK$87 million (US$11 million), of which more than HK$74 million (US$9.5 million) were direct support to the recipients. According to the annual progress report published in July 2021, the fund’s total income was HK$236 million (US$30.3 million), and its expenditure rose to HK$232 million (US$30 million), of which HK$212 million (US$30.3 million) was used to provide direct support to the recipients. And the number of beneficiaries was about 23,000.
The Hong Kong government began implementing the “Hong Kong National Security Law” in mid-2020. Many civil organizations supporting detainees were disbanded or prosecuted by the authorities for “fraud” and “money laundering,” and the “612 Fund” was not immune. In 2021, the Secretary for Security, Chris Tang Ping-keung, publicly accused the fund of sending letters to detainees, calling on them to continue to fight.
“Alliance for True Democracy,” which was responsible for administering the 612 Fund, announced in August 2021 that it was dissolving and could no longer carry out disbursement instructions for the 612 Fund, and the fund announced on the same day that it planned to cease operations in an orderly manner at the end of October.
Before the fund announced its decision to suspend operations, it had already been attacked by many pro-communist media, claiming that it had not registered as an organization and had “colluded with foreign elements.” They even asked the National Security Department to intervene in the investigation. In September 2021, the police asked the “612 Fund” to comply with the “order to make material available,” and hand over fundraising details and donor information.
As a cardinal, a rank just second to the Pope in the Vatican, the news of Cardinal Zen’s arrest has attracted widespread international attention.
However, the six people mentioned above were not prosecuted under the “Hong Kong National Security Law” but were charged with violating the “Societies Ordinance,” saying that they did not apply for registration or exemption from registration within the specified time limit. Each was finally convicted in November 2022 and fined HK$4,000 (US$512) and $2,500 (US$320), respectively.