Two senior House Republicans urged the Biden administration to strengthen the enforcement of export controls on sending advanced computing chips and the machinery required for their production to China.
The letter was issued in response to the recent launch of Huawei’s premier smartphone, the Mate 60 Pro. This device features an advanced 7-nanometer chip produced by the Chinese company Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation Incorporated (SMIC), despite existing sanctions. This chip, known as the Kirin 9000s, includes 5G connectivity capabilities.
Huawei and SMIC are on a U.S. trade blacklist called the Entity List, which bans them from buying American technology.
The lawmakers called on the administration to take immediate action against these Chinese firms, saying, “SMIC and Huawei should be hit with full blocking sanctions, which would cut them off completely from U.S. technology and the U.S. financial system.”
The letter said the current export controls need to be updated “to cut off and limit workarounds for advanced semiconductor and tool exports to China.”
Moreover, the lawmakers urged the administration to close the cloud computing loophole, which allows Chinese tech firms targeted by Washington to access cutting-edge U.S. chips via cloud providers. Chinese artificial intelligence firms reportedly use third-party cloud services and buy high-end American chips through intermediaries to bypass export control measures.
The commerce chief said her department needs resources and tools to enforce the export controls.
“We need different tools. We need additional resources around enforcement,” Ms. Raimondo said. “We’re tough as we need to be, but we need more resources.”
“The only good news, if there is any, is we don’t have any evidence that they can manufacture 7-nanometer [chips] at scale,” she said. “Although I can’t talk about any investigations specifically, I promise you this: Every time we find credible evidence that any company has gone around our export controls, we do investigate.”
In a separate move, the Commerce Department announced on Sept. 22 that it had finalized the rules under the CHIPS and Science Act to prevent China from benefiting from the $52 billion funds for U.S. semiconductor production, research, and workforce development.