Former Republican Texas Rep. Will Hurd is ending his campaign for the 2024 GOP presidential nomination and instead throwing his support behind fellow candidate Nikki Haley, he announced on Oct. 9.
In a statement on X (formerly Twitter), Mr. Hurd referred to himself as the “dark horse candidate” when he first entered the Republican presidential primary field back in June, noting that he expected the “path to victory” would “contain many obstacles.”
“I entered this race for a few simple reasons. First, to do what I can to ensure this experiment called America lasts for another 247 years. Second, Americans deserve better than the rematch from hell between Donald Trump and Joe Biden,” he said in Monday’s statement.
“Third, not enough people are talking about real, achievable solutions to the generation-defining challenges that are in front of us, including artificial intelligence, our new Cold War with China, and the complexity of the ongoing crisis at our southern border,” Mr. Hurd continued.
“Unfortunately, it has become clear to me and my team that the time has come to suspend our campaign. While I appreciate all the time and energy our supporters have given, it is important to recognize the realities of the political landscape and the need to consolidate our party around one person to defeat both Donald Trump and President Biden,” the former congressman and CIA officer said.
Mr. Hurd, an outspoken critic of former President Donald Trump, went on to urge American voters, donors, and candidates to support an alternative candidate to Mr. Trump or risk repeating “the same errors as in 2016.”
“I wholeheartedly endorse Ambassador Haley, and look forward to supporting her for the remainder of this race,” the Bexar County Republican said.
Mr. Hurd’s announcement came less than four months after he launched his 2024 GOP presidential nomination campaign, vowing to bring “commonsense leadership” to America and take on President Trump.
However, the Texas Republican, who served three terms in the House through January 2021 and was the chamber’s only Black Republican during his final two years in office, barely registered in multiple polls.
Ms. Haley, who is also a former governor of South Carolina, thanked Mr. Hurd for his endorsement in a Monday statement on X, writing, “America is at a crossroads, and it’s time to come together and make Joe Biden a one-term president. Thank you @WillHurd for your support and confidence. We have a country to save!”