Previously, any information about a lab origin was rigorously avoided, but now corporate media organizations are reporting on the likelihood of a lab origin as if their suppression of the evidence over the past three years had never happened.
In short, information pointing to a lab leak, which the corporate media claims to be new, isn’t new at all.
“If there are weaknesses in your program, now is the time to admit them,” he told Yuan, and also asked Yuan a series of probing questions in connection with the suspected lab leak. While Le Duc didn’t receive a reply, it doesn’t appear that Le Duc pursued the matter further.
Another director at the Wuhan lab was Dr. Shi Zhengli, whose history of reckless coronavirus experiments was well known at the time of the outbreak, not only to NIAID but to anyone who searched for her many publications on the internet. Her obsession with coronaviruses began in 2003, shortly after the original SARS outbreak.
Shi’s tenure from 2004 to 2019 with the Wuhan lab paints an alarming picture of ever more dangerous experiments, with ever more advanced biotechnology being conducted at the facility. Crucially, some of that biotechnology came from the United States and its transfer to China was directly facilitated by Fauci.
However, there’s no evidence that these experiments provided any civilian benefit: the COVID-19 pandemic wasn’t averted, nor was a vaccine developed in advance. Instead, scientists used these types of experiments to raise their profiles and boost their grant allocation.
The Shi and Baric experiment resulted in the “synthetic construction of chimeric mutant and full-length” SARS viruses. Put in simple terms, they had manufactured artificial viruses put together by combining parts of different viruses.
That experiment immediately caused an outcry from other scientists who warned that the coronavirus experiments at the WIV may cause a pandemic.
That evidence shows that in 2018, the Wuhan lab, Daszak’s EcoHealth, and the University of North Carolina’s Baric collaborated on a research project with the goal of inserting human-specific furin cleavage sites into SARS virus backbones.
In other words, the WIV had a blueprint for making a highly unusual virus that looks exactly like the highly unusual COVID-19 virus that emerged in Wuhan just two years later.
This isn’t an unusual occurrence in the area of science funding and aligns with the fact that the blueprint was highly detailed, indicating that, at a minimum, preliminary work was being done while the project was being pitched for funding.
This database of samples had been put together to help scientists trace the source and spread of novel viruses but was taken down at about the time that COVID-19 likely began its destructive global journey.
It appears likely that Daszak realized what had happened at Shi’s lab and was preemptively shifting the blame to nature.
Among the preliminary talking points that were sent internally to Fauci was an email from Fauci’s chief of staff, Greg Folkers, noting that “folks we fund” include “Peter Daszak, Ralph Baric, and lan Lipkin.” Folkers went on to inform Fauci of Daszak’s earlier same-day email conversation with Morens, telling Fauci that “NIAID has funded Daszak’s group for coronavirus work in China for the past 5 years.” Folkers also cut and pasted Daszak’s email to Morens in the email he sent to Fauci.
While he almost certainly was aware much earlier, we now know with certainty that Fauci knew no later than Jan. 27, 2020, that NIAID had funded bat coronavirus work at the Wuhan lab, including gain-of-function experiments.
“It is essential that we speak this AM. Keep your cell phone on,” Fauci told him.
Auchincloss, who is Fauci’s successor at NIAID, responded later that day.
In a prelude to the hastily convened Feb. 1, 2020 teleconference, Andersen and Fauci discussed the virus’s unique genomic sequence, with Andersen telling Fauci that the virus looked engineered. This topic of discussion would be carried into the teleconference the next day with one participant emailing other participants: “We need to talk about the backbone too, not just the insert?”
Serial passage is a process in which a virus is manipulated in a lab by repeatedly passing it through human-like tissue such as genetically modified mice that mimic human lung tissue.
Fauci cited the “Proximal Origin” paper–that he had helped edit and shape–as corroboration of his claims. Despite his personal involvement in the paper’s creation, Fauci feigned independence from Proximal Origin, telling reporters that he couldn’t recall the names of the authors.
With the exceptions of Fauci’s coverup efforts, which became known in June 2021 when his heavily redacted emails were released as a result of Freedom of Information Act litigation, and the 2018 DARPA project that a whistleblower leaked in September 2021, every fact laid out here was publicly known at the time of the outbreak of the pandemic.