CBP is a federal agency under the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). CBP submitted the document, termed a Privacy Threshold Analysis (PTA), to DHS to “continue to pilot the use of Babel Street’s Babel X platform.”
Babel X is “geo-enabled,” analyzes texts, and can monitor web activity on the public, “dark,” and “deep” webs. The dark web is a portion of the internet that is not indexed by search engines and functions on a different software infrastructure. It is often used for organized criminal activity.
The Babel X platform can search for keywords or phrases on more than 52 social media websites, in millions of web addresses, and in 200 languages, allowing users to enter English terms and return foreign language results.
CBP says it uses the tool to detect information that is “derogatory” or could show a threat to national security or  CBP personnel.
The use of Babel X is supposedly focused on “refugees/asylees,” the document says.
The information collected may include a person’s name, date of birth, address, email address, phone number, social media usernames, content, images, IP address, domain information, social security number (SSN), driver’s license number, employment history, and location data based on geolocation in public posts.
According to the PTA, social security numbers are not “required” to conduct queries on the platform, however, CBP may conduct social security number queries on a case-by-case basis. “CBP is not proposing to collect SSNs directly from individuals as part of this effort,” it says, but from commercially available sources, “in furtherance of its statutory law enforcement and border security responsibilities.”
While queries are stored indefinitely in the Babel X software, query results are not stored by the vendor but by CBP.
“The U.S. government’s ever-expanding social media dragnet is certain to chill people from engaging in protected speech and association online,” Carrie DeCell, senior staff attorney at the Knight First Amendment Institute, told Motherboard.
DeCell called CBP’s use of the advanced social media surveillance technology “especially concerning in connection with existing rules requiring millions of visa applicants each year to register their social media handles with the government. As we’ve argued in a related lawsuit, the government simply has no legitimate interest in collecting and retaining such sensitive information on this immense scale.”
“DHS should stop violating Americans’ rights, and Congress should pass my bipartisan legislation to prohibit the government’s purchase of Americans’ data.”
CBP has told Congress that the legal justification for its warrantless tracking is privileged, reported a Motherboard article dated Oct. 23, 2020.
Eighty-four percent of U.S. national security agencies have partnered with Babel Street, the company’s website says.