The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has shed light on the possibility of using artificial intelligence (AI) and machine language (ML) in the drug development process, pointing to the benefits these technologies bring, such as digital versions of human patients.
The agency pointed out that AI/ML could be used to predict which individuals would respond to better treatments and who would be at more risk of side effects. Conversational AI chatbots could be used to answer people’s questions about taking part in clinical trials.
Digital or computerized “twins” of a patient can be developed to model a medical intervention that would provide feedback on the treatment before the patient even receives it, FDA noted.
In 2021, over 100 drug and biological applications that were submitted to the agency had AI/ML components.
While highlighting the benefits of these technologies, the FDA also admitted that there are “challenges” involved in using AI/ML in drug development. This includes ethical concerns, cybersecurity risks, and improper data sharing.
The team trained an AI with a set of molecules that included environmental toxins and pesticides. The AI was tasked to calculate how to adapt the molecules in a way that they become more deadly.
Within just six hours, the AI outputted 40,000 potential killer molecules. This included a banned nerve agent called VX that was used to assassinate North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s half-brother.
The AI/ML can be used to mine vast data from clinical trials and other sources to match individuals with trials, the paper notes. However, this also brings up the issue of representation, it said.
“While these algorithms are trained on high volumes of patient data and enrollment criteria from past trials, it is important to ensure adequate representation of populations that are likely to use the drug (e.g., gender, race, and ethnicity) as matching algorithms are created and, when used, to confirm that equitable inclusion was achieved during the recruitment process.”
“The number of AI-driven companies with their own pipeline is still relatively small today (approximately 15 percent have an asset in preclinical development),” it said.
“I think there’s a space to look at what is working in other health care systems. Do we have the humility to learn from that and see what we can adopt? There may be space to do that within robots, but it may also be particularly around AI,” he said in an interview with The Telegraph.
“Looking at the examples in Japan where it may be on robotics, it may be on artificial intelligence, it may be other areas where technology is helping both to support patients in the care home, in their own home, and also avoid some of those visits to emergency departments, because once frail, elderly people are admitted to hospital, often they end up staying for a significant length of time.”
Without a human approach to life, the AI will simply consider all sentient beings to be “made of atoms it can use for something else.” And there is little humanity can do to stop it. Yudkowsky compared the scenario to “a 10-year-old trying to play chess against Stockfish 15.” No human chess player has yet been able to beat Stockfish, which is considered an impossible feat.
The industry veteran asked readers to imagine AI technology as not being contained within the confines of the internet.
“Visualize an entire alien civilization, thinking at millions of times human speeds, initially confined to computers—in a world of creatures that are, from its perspective, very stupid and very slow.”
The AI will expand its influence outside the periphery of physical networks and could “build artificial life forms” using laboratories where proteins are produced using DNA strings.