China’s biotechnology and clean energy sectors may be the next targets of U.S. sanctions, according to the president of a high-tech corporation in Japan.
Such sectors will probably face a downturn following China’s hard-hit semiconductor industry, the president, who for security reasons only wanted to be identified as Desen, told The Epoch Times on Jan. 5.
During this process, Chinese enterprises in these areas, he said, will lose the basis on which they learn and imitate.
The broader economic decoupling is also speeding up the outflow of international capital from China, he said, adding that this will apply further pressure on the economy.
Decoupling with the United States will affect China’s cheap commodities as they will lose their main market. New energy battery factories, for example, will need to decrease their production capacity.
It will become a situation where small and medium-sized enterprises will face the risk of survival and may be taken over. Large enterprises will lose the incentive to expand production, Desen said.
Clean Energy, New Energy TechnologyChina makes up a big portion of the global market in clean energy and new energy vehicles.
But its touted prospects for clean energy and new energy vehicles in China may not be so promising, according to Desen.
Chinese chip design lines were booming before it was sanctioned by the United States. For example, in 2018, Huawei’s chip plant Hisilicon ranked fifth in the list of the world’s top 10 integrated circuit (IC) design companies, but after Huawei was added to the U.S. Entity List in 2019, Intel, Qualcomm, and Xilinx cut their deals with Huawei, Hisilicon has since fallen out of the top 10, dwindling production values.
Starting in 2022, the U.S. Biden administration has ramped up sanctions on China’s semiconductor industry. As a result, the growth rate of the number of Chinese semiconductor design companies has slowed.
U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, on Sept. 16, 2022, raised concerns over biotechnology and clean energy technology.
Sullivan said three technology areas would be particularly important in the next decade. These three technology areas are computing-related technologies, including microelectronics, quantum information systems, and artificial intelligence; followed by biotechnology and biomanufacturing; and finally, clean energy technologies.
Desen believes this could be a sign that the U.S. is focusing on high-end technologies in biotechnology and clean energy at the national security level, in addition to semiconductor technology.
The export controls are considered the largest policy shift in U.S. technology exports to the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) since the 1990s and are regarded as the most comprehensive and stringent export control measures.
Wei Shaojun, chairman of the IC design branch of the China Semiconductor Industry Association, said in a speech at a summit on integrated circuit design on Dec. 26, 2022, that the sanctions on China’s semiconductor industry are “getting more and more severe” and that “in the face of the severe external environment, one should not be blindly optimistic that one can do anything.”
Wei is a leading figure in China’s semiconductor industry and a professor in the Department of Micro and Nano Electronics at Tsinghua University, where he has long been involved in research and development in IC design technology.
Regarding the current status of the U.S.-China technology decoupling and its impact on the future, Peking University’s Institute for International Strategic Studies published a research report on Jan. 31, 2022, on its official site, concluding that the decoupling would lead to losses for both sides. But the report added that China’s losses would be significantly greater than those of the United States and that China might be caught in a bottleneck in some key technological developments, making it difficult to break through.