Meta Platforms Inc., owner of Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp, slashed jobs across its business and operations units on Wednesday as part of a plan announced last fall to eliminate 10,000 jobs in the course of a broader restructuring program.
Dozens of Meta employees from enterprise engineering, marketing, corporate communications, site security, program management, and content strategy took to LinkedIn to announce that they had been laid off.
According to the LinkedIn posts, the social media giant also cut staff working on its privacy and integrity teams.
His announcement promptly bumped Meta shares up by 5 percent after the company’s stock had taken a sharp dive on October 27, when it released a disappointing third-quarter earnings report and even lower forecasts for future revenues.
In addition, lower-priority projects and hiring plans for 5,000 openings were canceled.
According to Zuckerberg, some 4,000 people were let go in April. These layoffs primarily hit tech teams—mostly staff from content design and user-experience research, while programmers were retained.
This month’s layoffs should be the last round of redundancies at Meta, following Zuckerberg’s pledge to restructure business teams “substantially” and return to a “more optimal ratio of engineers to other roles.”
The company’s shares gained ground slightly this week in a broadly weaker market. Shares have more than doubled in value this year and are among the top performers in the S&P 500 index—thanks to the cost-cutting drive and Meta’s focus on artificial intelligence.
The social media company said on Wednesday that the latest cuts were likely to impact its international headquarters in Dublin the most, where around 490 employees will lose their jobs—almost 20 percent of Meta’s Irish workforce.
The company has also been pouring billions of dollars into its Metaverse-oriented Reality Labs unit, which lost $13.7 billion in 2022, and a project to whip its infrastructure into shape to support artificial intelligence work.
Since the introduction of the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation in 2018, the DPC has fined Meta a total of 2.5 billion euro for various violations—more than any other company.