The Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists’ (SAG-AFTRA) national board voted Sept. 1 to send members ballots to decide whether to vote against 10 video game companies after the union said negotiations for a new contract failed.
The union began mailing out ballots Tuesday. Voting is expected to close at the end of business Sept. 25.
A strike authorization vote doesn’t automatically start a strike but it permits the union’s national board to declare a strike if negotiations fall apart, according to SAG-AFTRA.
Fran Drescher, SAG-AFTRA’s president, told members the issue of artificial intelligence (AI) in video games was jeopardizing union jobs.
“Once again we are facing employer greed and disrespect,” Ms. Drescher said in the press release. “Once again artificial intelligence is putting our members in jeopardy of reducing the opportunity to work.”
Unregulated use of AI poses an “enormous threat” to artists’ professions, she continued. For instance, trained stunt performers provide digitally captured performances to give expressive movement to video game characters, and the use of AI without restrictions poses a threat to their jobs, she said.
Without protections in the union’s contract, employers are asking performers to unknowingly participate in the extinction of their artistry and livelihoods, according to Ms. Drescher.
The union is also seeking a 4-percent increase in the second and third years of the agreement to keep up with inflation.
Members are also asking for on-camera performers to have the same five-minute-per-hour rest period that off-camera performers are granted, and an on-set medic when stunts or hazardous work is performed.
Video game companies included in the agreement are Activision Productions, Blindlight, Disney Character Voices, Electronic Arts Productions, Epic Games, Formosa Interactive, Insomniac Games, Take 2 Productions, VoiceWorks Productions, and WB Games.
Meanwhile, SAG-AFTRA members began their eighth week of a strike against the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (AMPTP) this week.
“Studios counted on fatigue and a fragmenting of the membership, and they have unsuccessfully attempted to foment infighting, but SAG-AFTRA members—you—understand that solidarity is our most powerful weapon,” Mr. Crabtree-Ireland said in the letter.
Union members took Monday off to celebrate the holiday but were expected to return to the picket lines at major studios for the rest of the week.
“More than 52 days later, we are still ready and willing to negotiate a fair deal, but we have not heard a word from the AMPTP,” he added.
However, the studios and producers, including Amazon, Apple TV, Disney, Fox, Netflix, NBCUniversal, Paramount Global, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Warner Bros. Discovery, and others, have resumed some negotiations with the Writers Guild of America (WGA), which has been on strike since May 2.
“Our priority is to end the strike so that valued members of the creative community can return to what they do best and to end the hardships that so many people and businesses that service the industry are experiencing,” said Carol Lombardini, president of the AMPTP, in a statement.
Additionally, the studios offered a 15-percent increase in minimum weekly rates for some writers in the first year and more wage increases up to the third year of the agreement, taking a writer from $9,888 per week to $11,371 a week for up to nine weeks, in one scenario.
Residuals would also increase from $72,067 to $87,546 per episode for three years, according to AMPTP.
Protections were also offered for the use of AI. Studios proposed regulations that included AI-generated written material would not be considered literary material, and a writer’s compensation, credit, and other rights would not be affected by the use of AI material.
Other terms were offered for writer training and development.
“This strike will end, and we will go back to work and it will be better when it is over,” Mr. Keyser said.