The U.S. Senate passed a bill on Thursday that would grant pay back to military officers whose promotions had been delayed for months due to Sen. Tommy Tuberville’s (R-Ala.) unprecedented legislative blockade.
The bill, proposed by Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), was unanimously passed on Dec. 14. This passage came after Mr. Tuberville dropped his blockade of military promotions on Dec. 5.
Speaking on the Senate floor on Dec. 14, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said the bill’s passage signifies the stance that military service members “don’t deserve to be penalized in any way at all.”
“Finally, we are able to right the wrong of Senator Tuberville’s illogical, hurtful, and dangerous holds and the massive impacts the holds had on military families,” Mr. Schumer remarked.
“These men and women have worked so hard for our country for so long. [And] because of Senator Tuberville, in a really nasty and whimsical holding back of their promotions, they weren’t getting paid.
“Tonight at long last we are giving these military families, families that have already sacrificed so much, the justice they deserve: their back pay,” he added.
Sens. Mark Warner (D-Va.) and Tim Kaine (D-Va.) welcomed the Senate approval and said that military officers “do not serve any particular political party,” but rather the nation as a whole.
The senator and other conservatives argued that the new policy violates a federal law that bars the use of federal tax dollars to pay for abortions, though the Department of Health and Human Services does so indirectly with substantial funding of the procedure to the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.
The Senate approved 425 promotions shortly after Mr. Tuberville announced the withdrawal of his blockade. President Joe Biden said the Republican’s hold of military nominations was “politically motivated.”
“These confirmations are long overdue, and should never have been held up in the first place. Our service members are the backbone of our country and deserve to receive the pay and promotions they have earned,” President Biden said on Dec. 5.
The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) includes funding for the multiyear procurement of 10 Virginia class submarines and the development of nuclear-armed cruise missile.
It also includes a trilateral nuclear-powered submarine pact with Britain and Australia (AUKUS), initiatives to counter Russia in Europe, foil China in the Pacific, and aid Israel in the Middle East, and investments in Space Force and technologies including artificial intelligence and hypersonics.
Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Jack Reed (D-R.I.) said the NDAA will strengthen the U.S. military posture in the Indo-Pacific and secure the nation’s interests “against China’s expanding ambitions.”