Lennon identified one of the mind games people play in the lyric “Chanting the mantra ‘Peace on Earth,’” a sentiment more relevant today than ever as the left disguises its apologies for terrorism in the clothing of pacifism. The same with “Love is the flower ... you gotta let it grow.”
His debunking of the myth that capitalism is based on greed, rather than on giving of oneself to others as the underpinning of success in entrepreneurship, is well known; less so are his findings on the role of labor:
“Because effective work consists not in merely fulfilling the requirements of labor contracts, but in ‘putting out’ with alertness and emotional commitment, workers have to understand and feel deeply that what they are given depends on what they give—that they must supply work in order to demand goods. Parents and schools must inculcate this idea in their children both by instruction and example.”
Mr. Gilder warned that “nothing is more deadly to achievement than the belief that effort will not be rewarded, that the world is a bleak and discriminatory place in which only the predatory and the specially preferred can get ahead.”
“Wealth and Poverty” posits that “after work the second principle of upward mobility is the maintenance of monogamous marriage and family.” Mr. Gilder concluded that “civilized society is dependent upon the submission of the short-term sexuality of young men to the extended maternal horizons of women.”
“This is what happens in monogamous marriage,” he said.
Responsible paternity is manifested in “the discipline and love of children and the dependable performance of the provider role.”
Economic policy is the means of letting the flower of love grow in soil fortified by the nutrients of work, the discipline of familial responsibilities, and faith—favoring private sector investment over the expansion of the welfare state and its assault on civilized society’s indispensable precept that citizens “must supply work in order to demand goods.”
Just where did this economic boom come from? Are there no negative effects on business activity from taking more money out of the pockets of investors—who, obviously, are to be found largely among those in the higher incomes and who possess money available to devote to buying equities?
Can anyone seeking to be objective really believe that President Clinton was more consequential than President Ronald Reagan, whose economic policy legacy was, first, to lower income taxes across the board by 25 percent, then, in his second term, reform a system that had burdened Americans with 14 different tax brackets, the highest reaching 70 percent, into one with two rates, the top rate a low, investment-spurring 28 percent?
It’s far more plausible to conclude that the “Clinton Boom” was actually a continuation of President Reagan’s historic recovery, interrupted by President George H.W. Bush’s breaking of his “no new taxes” pledge in the 1990 budget agreement.