Considering its massive layoffs earlier in the year, falling stock prices, and its overall box office failures, the Mouse House seems ready for a makeover in 2024.
That’s despite that 2023 was Disney’s 100th anniversary in movie making, which should be reason for celebration. Instead, the studio’s damaged reputation from putting messaging over entertaining often makes more headlines than the films it releases. Looking back at the year, 7 out of 8 major theatrical releases from the studio greatly underperformed both nationally and internationally.
Those that flopped considerably included the pre-Thanksgiving release “Wish”; “The Marvels,” which also released in November; the widely anticipated “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny”; the live-action remake of “The Little Mermaid”; and the summer remake “Haunted Mansion.”
Disney’s troubled year began with February’s flailing “Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania,” despite its all-star cast.
“Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny,” starring 81-year-old Harrison Ford, earned an estimated $130 million 3-day global weekend ($60 million domestic and $70 million international). Although it still managed to take the box office’s top spot, by some accounts, the numbers reflect a less than lackluster opening, considering it was a long-awaited continuation and the franchise’s ultimate finale.
Although the remake of “The Little Mermaid” earned a respectable $297 million domestically, it grossed only $267 million overseas, which with its $250 million budget was well below expectations.
Then there was “Wish,” which was meant to celebrate Disney’s 100-year anniversary, with the studio dubbing the film as “a century in the making.” Critics found the movie, which highlighted the Wishing Star that so many Disney characters have wished upon over the studio’s century-long history, to be disparate from classic Disney fare.
Production was delayed by Hollywood strikes demanding regulation of artificial intelligence effects on the industry, and the project also experienced multiple setbacks. One revolved around the so-called unauthorized on-set photos that were leaked, which showed the movie’s supposed “seven dwarves” played by a multi-racial and gender-diverse cast. Only one of the “dwarfs” looked to be an actual dwarf.
Before that, the film received less than favorable publicity when older videos of its star Rachel Zegler, 22, showed the actress insulting the 1937 original Snow White. Ms. Zegler essentially made the movie’s prince character out to be a “creepy stalker.”
“It’s extremely dated when it comes to the idea of women being in roles of power and what a woman is fit for in the world,” Ms. Zegler said during an interview with cast-mate Gal Gadot, referring to the movie based on the Grimms’ fairy tale.
According to Mr. Toto, the studio’s 7,000 layoffs represent 3.2 percent of Disney’s total headcount of about 220,000 employees worldwide as of Oct. 1, 2022, and are part of Disney’s efforts to make $5.5 billion in cost savings. Of that, $2.5 billion equates to “non-content costs” (including labor costs).
Mr. Toto pointed out that while executives have cheered shedding just $387 million in Q4, the company’s stock prices continue to acquiesce.
“We lost some focus,” he said during a recent earnings call.
Some analysts are noting a combination of factors behind Disney’s poor showing overall, including the studio’s continued inclusion of sexualized and other inappropriate themes in its content for younger viewers, to much lower ticket sales.
Regardless, the drop in movie ticket revenue has rippled down to film distributors, which doesn’t bode well for Disney.