Tasty, colorful gummies are an appealing, easy way to take vitamins and other supplements. Their chewiness somehow makes them feel comforting (thanks to what dieticians call “mouth feel”), and to many people eating a candy-like gummy may be a more satisfying and meaningful experience than swallowing a pill with a glass of water.
The gummy vitamin and supplement market is booming. Sleep aids, stress aids, immunity boosters, vitamins, and all sorts of health and dietary aids are available in gummy form, with some U.S. drugstores devoting as much or more shelf space to gummies as to old-style capsules and pills.
But gummies’ tempting textures, flavors, and colors come at a cost. Thanks to ingredients designed to add to their appeal and a manufacturing process that can lead to uneven benefits, gummies may not be as healthy as traditional unflavored capsules and tablets. Thoughtful consumers may want to consider if it makes sense to choose supplements based on their visual and sensory appeal.
Additionally, gummies may be more palatable to children and the elderly, who may have difficulty swallowing pills, according to SkyQuest.
According to Sensient, consumers associate color with wellness. The company’s consumer research found “vibrant orange can signal healthy doses of Vitamin C, while deeper blue and purple hues can offer a calming effect before even tasting the product.”
Commonly, melatonin gummies to promote sleep are purple or blue, while gummies that claim to boost energy or mood are yellow or orange.
The dyes used in gummy supplements were originally created from tar and are now made from petroleum, according to Angela McCleary, a certified health and nutrition coach in Succasunna, New Jersey. She told The Epoch Times that these dyes have been shown to cause cancer, ADHD, and behavioral effects. They (along with other food additives) are banned in Europe due to these effects, especially in young children. But manufacturers use these additives and dyes in other countries, including the United States, to make foods and supplements more shelf-stable and to enhance their appearance.
“They are marketing them [gummies] very well, so that they look appealing to people. They’re making them to be more visually appealing, especially to kids, but they’re toxic, really,” said Ms. McCleary.
This leads manufacturers to include more of some ingredients than the amount listed on the label, “to help ensure the gummy will continue to provide at least 100% of each listed ingredient throughout its shelf-life, as required by the FDA [U.S. Food and Drug Administration],” according to the ConsumerLab site. “However, this results in products with too much of a vitamin when first produced and a range of declining amounts by the time [customers] consume them.”
The researchers noted, “22 of 25 products (88%) were inaccurately labeled, and only 3 products (12%) contained a quantity of melatonin that was within ±10% of the declared quantity.”
This can lead to harmful consequences. The researchers reported that calls to poison control centers in the United States regarding pediatric melatonin ingestions increased 530 percent from 2012 to 2021, and were associated with 27,795 emergency department and clinic visits, 4,097 hospitalizations, 287 intensive care unit admissions, and two deaths.
While some of these overdoses were accidental, others may have been due to children mistaking melatonin gummies for candy.
Even adults can fall into this trap, said Ms. McCleary. She told The Epoch Times, “People are taking more than they’re supposed to because it’s not like you’re taking a supplement. It’s almost like gummies are fun. You’re taking them because you want the health benefits but it’s almost like you’re tricking yourself into thinking they’re just candy.
“Gummies increase the pleasure. And that’s what people look for—they look for pleasure. And if it tastes good, they want more. They’re going to take more than they’re supposed to.”