Former Texas Rep. Will Hurd, a fierce critic of former President Donald Trump, announced Thursday that he’s running for president in 2024 as a Republican, entering an already crowded GOP primary field dominated by Trump.
Hurd, a one-time CIA officer before entering politics, represented the state’s 23rd Congressional District—a massive district that stretches across the southwestern portion of Texas and encompasses more than 800 miles of the 1,200-mile Texas-Mexico border.
“Our enemies plot, create chaos, and threaten the American Dream. At home, illegal immigration and fentanyl stream into our country. Inflation, still out of control. Crime and homelessness, growing in our cities, and liberals do nothing,” he said in the video.
“President Biden can’t solve these problems—or won’t,” he continued. “And if we nominate a lawless, selfish, failed politician like Donald Trump ... we all know Joe Biden will win again.”
Before serving in Congress, Hurd was a clandestine officer who worked in Pakistan. He speaks Urdu, Pakistan’s national language. In 2020, he opted not to seek reelection to the House, saying then that he preferred to “pursue opportunities outside the halls of Congress to solve problems at the nexus between technology and national security.” Last year, he traveled the country on a tour to promote his book, “American Reboot: An Idealist’s Guide to Getting Big Things Done.”
“For the past 20 years, I’ve been on the front lines of the most pressing fights facing our nation. I hunted down terrorists in the Middle East after 9/11. In Congress, I fought to lower taxes, secure our border, and provide more opportunities for the middle class. I’ve worked at the highest level of business to harness technology and innovation for the future of America. These experiences have shown me that this moment, that this election, has never mattered more. That’s why I’m running for the Republican nomination for president of the United States,” he said.
“There are a number of generational defining challenges that we’re faced with in the United States of America—everything from the Chinese government trying to surpass us as the global superpower, the fact that inflation is persistent at a time when technologies like artificial intelligence is going to upend every single industry, and our kids, their scores in math, science, and reading are the lowest they’ve ever been in this century,” he said.
Most of the GOP candidates in the race are trying to run more against Biden than against Trump—who, according to polls, remains easily the most popular candidate among GOP voters. Hurd, as well as Christie and Hutchinson, have all repeatedly criticized Trump and the former commander-in-chief’s strong influence on the Republican Party.
A pro-Trump super PAC issued a statement in response to Hurd entering the GOP field, calling the latest long-shot candidate a “RINO”—or “Republican In Name Only,” a disparaging term that refers to a Republican candidate whose behavior is seen as running counter to Republican values.
On the other side of the aisle, the Democratic National Committee was also quick to condemn the presidential announcement.
Despite joining an already crowded GOP primary with little national profile, Hurd built a reputation in Congress as pro-business, pragmatic, and unafraid to seek bipartisan consensus. When a snowstorm canceled flights to Washington in 2017, he rented a car and drove for two days from San Antonio to the nation’s capital with Rep. Beto O’Rourke, a Democrat from El Paso who ran unsuccessfully for president in 2020.