China is developing weapons targeting brain functions, with the goal of engaging in cognitive warfare to influence government and military leaders and control entire populations, according to a new report.
Currently, China does not have the defense industrial base to manufacture the types of technologies for a “NeuroStrike” program that matches “the strategic ambitions” of the CCP, the report said, but a breakthrough in research could have serious implications.
“Any breakthrough in this research would provide unprecedented tools for the CCP to forcibly establish a new world order, which has been [Chinese leader] Xi Jinping’s lifelong goal,” the report says.
Scientifically speaking, NeuroStrike is defined as the engineered targeting of the brains of soldiers or civilians using non-kinetic technology, with the objectives of impairing cognition, reducing situational awareness, inflicting long-term neurological damage, and degrading normal cognitive functions. The report added that non-kinetic technology includes microwave or other directed energy.
The weapons can be deployed in handled guns or larger weapons firing electromagnetic beams, but the Chinese regime’s weaponization of neuroscience goes beyond “the scope and understanding of classical microwave weapons.”
“Their new landscape of NeuroStrike development includes using massively distributed human-computer interfaces to control entire populations as well as a range of weapons designed to cause cognitive damage,” the report explains.
More specifically, they explained that NeuroStrike weapons “fit into” the communist regime’s existing “anti-access/area-denial” (A2/AD) strategy, which is mainly about blocking U.S. forces from intervening in conflicts started by China in the Indo-Pacific, such as invading Taiwan.
“Imagine (at least partially) immunized PLA troops being inserted into a geography where a specific weaponized bacterial strain has been released prior to their entry to prepare the ground and eliminate points of resistance,” the report says. “Any remaining sources of resistance on the ground are then dealt with through CCP NeuroStrike weaponry that instill intense fear and/or other forms of cognitive incoherence resulting in inaction.”
Under the scenario, the Chinese military would be able to establish “absolute control” over a region, such as Taiwan, while “blunting any American strategic options to intervene.”
“This would effectively negate and render inert America’s overwhelming conventional superiority with very few (if any) near-term remedies,” the report adds. “This scenario is based on known existing CCP research programs and what the clear strategic aims of those programs are.”
“AMMS represents a complex network of still-overt, half-submerged and outright subterranean global linkages that continue to ‘power’ its most aggressive research and development programs,” the report says, before adding that it was necessary to keep a close watch on this institution.
China is known to be using so-called talent recruitment programs to entice foreigners and Chinese nationals in the science and tech sectors to work in China. These programs, which include the best-known “Thousand Talents Program” and “Hundred Talents Program,” often offer heavy financial incentives, as well as relocation costs, to their participants.
Wang Yizheng, who was once a faculty member at Thomas Jefferson University, is now a researcher at AMMS, an academician at the state-run Chinese Academy of Sciences, and a vice president at the Chinese Neuroscience Society. His research includes the understanding of neuronal survival mechanisms.
Mr. Wang returned to China in 2001 and was named one of the participants in the “Hundred Talents Program.”
“The PLASSF now operates as a type of superstructure on top of a growing and increasingly active platform of Chinese military assets (land, sea, air, cyber, and space) across multiple theatres in the Indo-Pacific while simultaneously serving as the primary deployment platform for new NeuroStrike weaponry,” the report says.
“With additional NeuroStrike capabilities that can either damage, disorient or even control perceived adversary cognition at the population level, the PLASSF would represent an exponential escalation in the CCP’s aggression in the Indo-Pacific.”
To counter China’s NeuroStrike capabilities, the report offered several recommendations for the U.S. government, including exploring policy remedies, such as ethics reviews for certain neuroscience and cognitive science studies. Doing so would allow international researchers to be “more cautious” when partnering with Chinese researchers, according to the report.