Although the study contributes nothing new to the climate change/global warming issue, it did reveal some of the weaknesses in the alarmists’ position. A tip of the hat to the author of the Axios report for neatly assembling those weaknesses.
The first sentence in the Axios article deftly sets the pattern: “A new study relying on machine learning methods finds the climate thresholds enshrined in the Paris agreement may be coming up faster than previously anticipated.”
Here, the writer implicitly admits that there’s no guarantee of dire consequences. (Actually, the likelihood of cataclysm seems quite remote, since Earth has experienced such temperatures twice before in the past 4,000 years—the Roman and Minoan periods—and human civilization flourished both times.)
“May”? If the machines were crunching numbers from specific computer models, how could they not be “biased” by those models? Aren’t the conclusions reached by artificial intelligence predetermined by the data and rules of the game fed into them?
The Axios article displays a pronounced bias of its own: “The world is already suffering the impacts of 1.1°C (1.98°F) to 1.2°C (2.16°F) of warming to date ...”
The word “suffering” is employed to manipulate the reader into believing that if the effects of warming so far have led to “suffering,” then further increases would likely be even more hurtful. The problem with the use of the word “suffering” in connection with the warming of the past century-and-a-half or so is that it’s a warped mischaracterization of historical reality.
In the mid-1800s, the world began to climb out of the Little Ice Age—a bitterly cold period of several centuries’ duration that, in fact, inflicted much suffering and hardship on the human race. In addition to the bone-chilling winters that humans living north of the Tropic of Cancer suffered through (in this context, the verb “suffer” is literally true), the concentration of CO2 in Earth’s atmosphere (~290 parts per million, ppm) was only about 100–150 ppm above what is necessary for plant life (hence, animal and human life) to survive on Earth.