The United Nations says that it’s battling mis- and disinformation on social media and beyond through what it calls a “digital army” located across the globe.
The intergovernmental organization has also been monitoring how mis- and disinformation and hate speech can “attack health, security, stability” as well as progress towards its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), officials said.
Such platforms have “given people hope in times of crisis and struggle, amplified voices that were previously unheard, and breathed life into global movements,” Mr. Guterres wrote.
However, they have also “exposed a darker side of the digital ecosystem,” the U.N. secretary-general noted.
“They have enabled the rapid spread of lies and hate, causing real harm on a global scale,” he wrote in the brief. “Optimism over the potential of social media to connect and engage people has been dampened as mis- and disinformation and hate speech have surged from the margins of digital space into the mainstream. The danger cannot be overstated.”
The U.N. policy brief acknowledges that there are “no universally accepted definitions” of the term “disinformation” but says that the U.N.’s own working definition of the term refers to “false information that is disseminated intentionally to cause serious social harm.”
The term “misinformation” is described in the U.N. policy brief as “the unintentional spread of inaccurate information shared in good faith by those unaware that they are passing on falsehoods.”
“Misinformation can be rooted in disinformation as deliberate lies and misleading narratives are weaponized over time, fed into the public discourse, and passed on unwittingly,” the U.N. brief states. “In practice, the distinction between mis- and disinformation can be difficult to determine.”
According to the U.N., peacekeepers have been working across the globe to put “new tools into the hands of civilians of all ages” aimed at combating mis- and disinformation; this includes launching workshops in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Earlier this month, in Abyei—which is located on the border between South Sudan and Sudan and is a disputed region—the U.N. mission there, called the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei, also launched its own radio station called Voice of Peace aimed at countering hate speech and fake news, according to a news release.
“The ability to disseminate large-scale disinformation to undermine scientifically established facts poses an existential risk to humanity and endangers democratic institutions and fundamental human rights,” Mr. Guterres concluded in the June policy brief.
The tool—supported by the UNDP Chief Digital Office and the UNDP Brussels-based Task Force on Electoral Assistance and developed in concert with media organizations and the private sector—uses artificial intelligence, machine learning, and human-supported fact-checking to “identify false information and prevent and mitigate its spread,” according to the U.N.