Artificial intelligence will step in for a swathe of editorial roles as part of an overhaul of Germany’s largest newspaper title, Bild.
The tabloid publication is undergoing a significant shakeup of its operations following a pledge from the publisher, Mathias Döpfner, to make the brand “digital only.”
On June 19, the German publishing company that owns Bild, Axel Springer, told staff that redundancies—estimated to be in the hundreds—would be underway.
“Roles such as editors, print production journalists, proofreaders, photo editors, and assistants will no longer exist like they do today.”
The move also comes amid cuts to regional titles and the shutting of smaller newsrooms.
Axel Springer is Europe’s largest publisher and acquired U.S. news titles, Politico and Business Insider in 2021.
In March, CEO and publisher Döpfner issued a stark warning to staff on the impact of AI.
“Understanding this change is essential to a publishing house’s future viability,” Döpfner added. “Only those who create the best original content will survive.”
In response to the latest changes, the German Journalists Association was scathing.
Key questions include what impact AI will have on employment, whether AI-generated information is accurate and broader, and existential questions like whether AI will surpass or supersede humans (or achieve “singularity”).
“The desire to go fast was a mistake for some of the other news services,” said Renn Turiano, senior vice president and head of product at Gannett, in comments obtained by Reuters.
“We’re not making that mistake.”
While media mogul Barry Diller, who co-founded the Fox Broadcasting Company, was blunt in his assessment of the technology.
Diller compared the impact of AI to that of online news on the traditional media industry, saying there was “enormous destruction” of newsrooms.
Governments worldwide are now grappling with developing regulations to control the development of AI.
Tech entrepreneur and Tesla founder, Elon Musk, has been the most prominent critic of uncontrolled AI innovation.
In a joint letter, they warned that companies have been “locked in an out-of-control race to develop and deploy ever more powerful digital minds that no one—not even their creators—can understand, predict, or reliably control.”