The government bill will give legislators the right to select and confirm judges and limit the right of Israel’s Supreme Court to strike down any passed legislation.
On April 15, Moody’s Investors Service, the credit ratings agency, downgraded Israel’s credit outlook from “positive” to “stable,” citing concerns about the legislation’s impact on the independence of the judiciary.
Moody’s affirmed Israel’s sovereign credit rating at “A1” while downgrading its outlook, after implying that the country’s institutions were less predictable given the recent events.
Global credit rating agencies, such as Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s, have until recently held off rating downgrades, as Mr. Netanyahu’s cabinet has promised that it would make every effort to reach a broad agreement or a consensus with the left-wing opposition and would not advance any new unilateral legislation on the judicial overhaul for now.
Masses of protesters gathered outside the Knesset, the Israeli parliament, while opposition lawmakers inside called the changes an attack on the rule of law, the rights of citizens, and to democracy itself, reported The New York Times.
The protestors claim that the law will weaken the courts and endanger civil liberties.
Mr. Netanyahu’s coalition members argued that an unaccountable judiciary was the real threat to democracy and that they planned on further moves to curb its power.
Israel’s central bank and senior finance ministry officials have warned earlier this year that the new law might impact investor sentiment and hurt the economy.
“Attempts to reach a compromise with the opposition have failed … the bill’s approval comes amid widespread protests by civil society groups that have been ongoing since January and which we expect will continue,” noted Moody’s.
“Petitions against the bill have been lodged with the Supreme Court, raising the risk of a constitutional crisis between the executive and judiciary,” it continued.
Moody’s further warned that some of its earlier concerns this year regarding the proposed reforms’ impact on the nation’s economy are starting to be felt, which Mr. Netanyahu’s government refuted.
“This is a momentary response; when the dust clears, it will be clear that the Israeli economy is very strong,” said Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Smotrich in the press statement.
“The security industries are bursting with orders. The gas industry is increasing exports to Europe, and seven companies are now competing for tenders to explore for gas in Israel at an investment worth billions.”
“Intel is planning its largest investment outside of the U.S. ever, and will invest $25 billion in Israel,” they added.
“NVIDIA is building a supercomputer in Israel, and we are moving forward in AI [artificial intelligence], cyber, and the manufacture of chips in Israel. Growth is increasing, and inflation has been blocked. Regulation is being lifted, and free market competition is increasing.”
Shares of Israeli firms continued to plummet today as the shekel fell for a second day in a row amid concerns that international rating agencies were likely to hit the country’s credit outlook.
“Venture capital investments in Israeli high-tech firms have declined materially, with the sector raising $3.7 billion in the first six months of the year, the lowest figure since 2019,” Moody’s warned.
“While the slowdown reflects global trends in the sector triggered by tighter financing conditions and a degree of normalization after the pandemic, there are also signs that Israel is decoupling from global trends.”
Meanwhile, Israel’s economy grew a faster than expected, at 6.4 percent, in 2022, but growth is expected to fall below 3 percent this year amid aggressive central bank interest rate hikes aimed at curbing high inflation.
“The Israeli economy has grown at a rapid rate over the past several years, averaging 4.1 percent over the decade to 2022, helped to an important extent by the globally competitive and increasingly diversified high-tech industries,” said Moody’s.
Israel’s booming tech sector has been its main engine of economic growth for the past decade, accounting for 49 percent of total exports and generating around 15 percent of GDP in 2022.