Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has resisted calls from senior Tories to cut taxes before the next general election.
Speaking to broadcasters ahead of the Conservative Party annual conference on Sunday, current and former ministers Michael Gove and Dame Priti Patel suggested voters need to feel lighter tax burden before the election, but Mr. Sunak refused to make the commitment, insisting the current priority is to halve inflation, which stood at 6.3 percent in August.
The minister suggested he would like to first see income tax on the chopping board.
“My own view is, wherever possible, we should cut taxes on work. In other words, we should incentivise people to work harder, we should make sure they are better rewarded for the enterprise, the effort, the endeavour that they put in,” he said.
However, he later told a Conservative party conference fringe event hosted by the Centre for Policy Studies that ministers can only cut taxes “if we have tackled inflation.”
Former home secretary Dame Priti said she wants to see income tax cut and inheritance tax scrapped.
“It is now October, there will be fiscal events coming up,“ she told Sky News’s ”Sunday Morning With Trevor Phillips” programme.
“For the public to feel an absolute tangible change and difference, we’ve got to work on this sooner.”
Asked if he would commit to cutting taxes before the general election, the prime minister said, “I’m a Conservative, I want to cut taxes” but “the best tax cut that we can give working people is to halve inflation.”
Earlier in the interview, Mr. Sunak said, “Inflation is a tax. It’s a tax that impacts the poorest people the most.”
“Economically, the impact that it has on people is to eat into their pockets. It eats into their wallets, it puts up the price of things, it effectively acts as a tax, and that’s why we must bring it down,” he said.
Speaking to a broadcaster during a visit to Burnley, he said it’s a “deeply Conservative approach,” adding “this is what Margaret Thatcher did, this is what Nigel Lawson did.”
“This is in the tradition of great Conservative governments, bringing inflation down, because that’s the bedrock on which you build a strong economy. And that is the best way to help people with the cost of living,” he said.
The Bank of England (BoE) is tasked with keeping inflation at around 2 percent. But the index has run away after the COVID-19 pandemic, peaking at 11.1 percent in October last year before gradually falling back to 6.3 percent in August.
Asked what taxes he would cut, he didn’t seem to have a preference.
“All taxes are distortive,” Mr. Hunt told the newspaper.
“We worry about inheritance tax, because it’s a tax on aspiration and savings, and we also worry about income tax because it’s important to make work pay,” he said.
“Despite the challenges of the last 13 years,” he said, referring to successive Conservative governments in Downing Street, “one of our proudest achievements is that as of last month you can earn £1,000 a month without paying a penny of tax or national insurance.”
“We have dramatically reduced taxes on lower-paid people. I would like to reduce taxes on everyone,” he said.
On Friday, the Institute for Fiscal Studies said forecasts show 37 percent of the national income will go to paying taxes by the time of the next general election, the highest since records began in 1948.
It would be 4.2 percentage points higher than the tax burden during the last general election, meaning this Conservative-led Parliament will have seen the biggest increase than any other since the Second World War.