Three members of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, themselves veterans, have urged the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to investigate what they are calling troubling allegations that a neurologist at the Tomah VA Medical Center in Wisconsin may have failed over an 18-year period to provide hundreds of veterans with thorough and adequate compensation and pension (C&P) exams.
Bost served in the Marine Corps. Luttrell and Van Orden are Navy SEAL combat veterans.
The committee members are calling on the VA to not only follow up and expand on its review showing that 22 of 72 examinations that Dr. Mary Jo Lanska performed were incomplete but also to look into the possibility that the VA has a bigger and more widespread problem with faulty and inadequate examinations than those involving just one doctor.
In the letter, the lawmakers called to task the VA for taking so long to discover the problems with Dr. Lanska’s exams, writing that “it is unacceptable that VA identified these errors almost three years after the provider stopped completing C&P exams, and only after these concerns were brought forward publicly.”
The letter continued: “We question whether these deficiencies are limited to the Tomah VAMC neurologist, or whether these findings indicate a possible systemic failure in the VA’s ability to provide veterans with adequate traumatic brain injury (TBI) disability exams and conduct effective quality review of such exams.”
During a training exercise in 2009, off the coast of Virginia, Luttrell fell from a Black Hawk helicopter onto a moving ship. He broke his back and sustained a TBI. Amazingly, Luttrell, after a difficult rehabbing and recovery, continued to serve. He retired in 2014 with a medical discharge granted for his spinal injury.
Following his discharge, Luttrell, who already held a bachelor’s degree that he earned from Sam Houston State University before enlisting in the Navy, went on to the University of Texas at Dallas, where he completed his master’s degree in applied cognition and neuroscience.
Luttrell puts to use his real-life experience and trauma, and his academic training and credentials to help veterans with TBI and other neurological disorders. One pathway he researches and develops ways to provide this support is through the use and application of artificial intelligence (AI).
“As a disabled veteran myself, I understand and appreciate the challenges our service members face once they’ve returned home,” said Rep. Luttrell in a statement he sent to The Epoch Times on May 3.
“It’s critical we ensure that our veterans receive the highest quality care and support, especially in regard to traumatic brain injury disability exams. I'll continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to improve the lives of veterans.”