DES MOINES, Iowa—Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis began the reboot of his presidential campaign with a two-day bus tour of small towns in central Iowa, culminating in a rousing speech at a state Republican fundraising dinner where he was one of a handful of standouts among the 13 candidates to take the stage.
The DeSantis campaign embarked on a shakeup over the past couple of weeks as the candidate had slipped in national polls, and data filed with the Federal Election Commission suggested that the campaign was rapidly depleting its sizable war chest.
Mr. DeSantis began the race polling at about 20 percent, rising to as high as 24 percent by early July. While former President Donald Trump has consistently polled above 50 percent, Mr. DeSantis appeared to be the clear alternative in a crowded 13-candidate GOP field.
That changed over the past two weeks as Mr. DeSantis slumped to a new low of 16 percent while Ohio-based entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy, a political newcomer, showed signs of building momentum.
Publicly available financial records show that Mr. DeSantis raised more than $20 million in six weeks upon entering the race on May 24, but also spent $8 million during that time. Of that amount, $890,000 was spent on payroll and another $845,000 on travel expenses, including the use of private jets, according to an analysis conducted by The Associated Press.
Of the $12 million on hand as of June 30, about $3 million is designated for the general election.
As a result of the poor performance and pressure on campaign funds, the campaign reduced staff by about 40 percent, according to some reports, and retooled to focus on Iowa, which will hold the nation’s first primary contest with its Jan. 15, 2024, caucuses.
That afternoon, the Never Back Down tour bus stopped at the Wayne County Fairgrounds in Corydon, where the candidate shook hands with a 99-year-old World War II veteran and visited a hog barn where a pair of teenage girls tended to two sows nursing newborn piglets.
In the evening, Mr. DeSantis conducted a town hall-style event at a craft distillery in Indianola, where he fielded questions on vaccines, Social Security benefits, electric vehicles, and artificial intelligence.
Mr. DeSantis’s core message went over well with many attendees who liked his tough talk about eradicating “wokeness,” securing the border, reforming education, unleashing American energy, and creating good-paying jobs. Mr. DeSantis promised to be an “energetic executive” who would “lead boldly and apologetically.”
“On day one, we will be ready to spit nails,” he said, referring to initiatives such as militarizing border security and reforming the FBI.
“He hit all the points,” Felix Onuora of Chariton told The Epoch Times.
“He hit the right notes for Iowa,” Michael Wyatt of Osceola said. “He spoke about parental rights, education ... crime, and the two-tiered justice system.”
The next day, Mr. DeSantis took his message to a larger audience at the Lincoln Dinner, an annual fundraiser held by the Iowa Republican Party, which included brief appearances by all 13 GOP candidates.
Mr. DeSantis took the stage to enthusiastic applause and gave a skilled rendition of his stump speech. The audience applauded his position statements and seemed engaged by his commanding and energetic presence. The candidate received a solid ovation at the conclusion of his speech, with about one-third of the 1,200 attendees standing.
“I believe he is the man,” Mr. Onuora said after hearing the candidate in Chariton and exchanging a few words afterward.
Angela Rich of Chariton told The Epoch Times that she was favorable toward Mr. DeSantis before hearing him speak and even more favorable after.
Yet, Iowa voters are used to having a good deal of personal contact with candidates and may make their decision based on personal factors as much or more than on policy positions.
Though Mr. DeSantis gamely engages in handshaking and small talk, he appears to be more comfortable on the large platform than in the crowded town hall.
In the hog barn, for example, Mr. DeSantis seemed more interested in speaking with local political leaders than in engaging with the teens tending to the piglets. After each interaction, the candidate would turn to a staffer and ask, “Where do we go next?” seldom deviating from the itinerary.
Iowa voters are wary of campaign choreography, preferring unscripted, highly personal interactions.
“I want to see how he is on his feet,” Barbara Tolly of Chariton told The Epoch Times. “I hope he doesn’t have scripted questions.”
Though Mr. DeSantis didn’t field audience questions at that event, he did at the town hall-style event in Osceola.
“It was obvious that several, if not all, of those who received the microphone, were plants,” Mr. Wyatt of Indianola later told The Epoch Times.
“The first guy ... gave a five-minute speech, making sure the Q&A didn’t last too long,” said Mr. Wyatt, a retired FBI officer. “Most people, when speaking to a famous person, look nervous and betray it in their voice.
“Nobody, last night, did that.”
Mr. Wyatt also noted the prominent presence of black-clad private security personnel at the event, which he said struck the wrong note for Iowa.
“Michele Bachmann, years ago, did something similar, and everyone around us was offended,” Mr. Wyatt said.
After the Lincoln Dinner, some attendees were impressed by Mr. DeSantis but reserved their commitment until getting to know him better.
“I still don’t know,” Lori Reyman of Holstein told The Epoch Times. “I’ve only been this close to him once,” she said, indicating a space of about two feet. “That was tonight for only three minutes.”