Congress will work to develop a comprehensive framework for guiding artificial intelligence (AI) development and legislation, according to Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.).
Schumer says that the effort is necessary to safeguard U.S. security and values in an age that will be defined by enormous technological and social changes.
“We come together at a moment of revolution,” Schumer said during a June 21 talk at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank. “[It is] not one of weapons or political power, but a revolution in science and understanding that will change humanity.”
To that end, Schumer said that lawmakers will invite top AI experts to Congress in the coming months for a series of forums on the issue of AI, innovation, and regulation. The result, he hoped, would be to ensure U.S. prosperity in the face of  “world-altering” technological development.
“The age of AI is here, and it is here to stay,” he said.
“If [the] government doesn’t step in, who will fill its place?” he said.
“Individuals in the private sector can’t do the work of protecting our country.”
Accordingly, Schumer said that Congress would seek to develop a plan for AI development that encourages competition, while deterring the use of AI by malign actors, be they foreign or domestic.
“In the hands of foreign adversaries, especially autocracies, or domestic rogue groups ... the dangers of AI could be extreme,” he said.
“We need to do everything we can to install guardrails that make sure these groups cannot use our advances in AI for illicit and bad purposes.”
AI would need to be developed in accordance with the democratic values that underpin the United States, lest the technology’s trajectory be dictated by authoritarian powers such as communist China, Schumer said.
“If we don’t program these algorithms to be aligned with our values, they could be used to undermine our democratic foundations, especially our electoral processes.
“The Chinese Communist Party [CCP], which has little regard for the norms of democratic governance, could leap ahead of us and set the rules of the game for AI.”
Schumer called his proposed plan the “SAFE Framework,” as it would seek to implant security, accountability, respect for democratic foundations, and explainability into the standards of AI development.
By forging consensus on these issues, he said, the United States could guard itself “against doomsday scenarios.”
“There are those who fear AI’s immense power and conclude it’s better to turn back. To go no further down this unknown road. We all know it’s not that simple, and it’s not that easy,” Schumer said.
Both efforts are key to the CCP’s goal of “intelligentization,” a transformation of warfare through the mass integration of AI, automation, and big data.
As such, some members of Congress believe that AI will be a determining factor in deciding the outcome of the new cold war between China and the United States, and have questioned to what extent regulation will be useful in achieving a beneficial end to the competition.
“I would take an unregulated or less-than-ideally regulated Western-developed AI, rather than a Chinese Communist Party techno-dictatorship-developed AI that has the potential to dominate both militarily and economically, if those are our two bad options,” Waltz said during a June 5 talk with the Atlantic Council, a Washington-based think tank.