Money will keep leaving China as a diminished return on investment no longer justifies the risk of dealing with the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), according to Christopher Balding, an expert on the Chinese economy at the UK-based think tank Henry Jackson Society.
The U.S.–China decoupling will accelerate as a result, he said.
He forecasts that U.S. interest rates will be higher than China’s for a “sustained period of time”—at least into 2025. In the past several months, China’s central bank has repeatedly lowered its key interest rates to control deflation, while the U.S. Federal Reserve has boosted rates to reduce inflation.
In the business world, where government bond yield informs the corporate return on investment (ROI) rate, which is usually higher because of higher risk, investors constantly compare ROIs among various options.
Currently, the U.S. 2-year Treasury bond rate is about 5 percent, while the 2-year Chinese central government bond rate is about 2 percent. That spread of 3 percent indicates a difference in business ROIs at the same magnitude.
Mr. Balding says the perfect storm has another dynamic: the difficulties of dealing with the CCP feeding into the lowered return. He added that the “compounding” effect makes investing in China more risky and less desirable. The business community will look to invest in other places that don’t carry the same high risk as what the CCP imposes in the Chinese environment, he said.
According to China’s National Bureau of Statistics, the property sector, which used to make up about 30 percent of China’s gross domestic product (GDP), saw its year-on-year investment decline by nearly 18 percent in July.
He said that decoupling on Mr. Xi’s terms is about getting U.S. investments with know-how and then kicking these companies out of China as soon as he has everything that he needs.
The current decoupling is on U.S. terms, Mr. Balding said, pointing to President Joe Biden’s recent executive order as an example.
Mr. Balding said such guidelines were “not even close” to achieving the stated objectives.