In fact, the Faculty had been having difficulties with me for quite some time. Actually, for about fifteen years. Because, for example, I think the quality of current scientific research in the field of psychology is very problematic and I say so out loud. But mainly because of my critical voice during the corona crisis. Because of this, I’ve had several interviews with the Research Director and Dean of faculty in 2021. They always emphasized my freedom of speech, but also that they were concerned about me. I appreciate their attempts to engage in dialogue, but I want to ask them this: isn’t concern about dissent opinions one of the most grievous symptoms of our times?
I continued articulating my own opinion anyway, but not without consequences. I was kicked out of the consortium for clinical psychology of the Faculty of Psychology in 2021. The rationale was that my colleagues no longer wished to associate with me due to my public statements about mass formation during the corona crisis. That was pretty honest and straightforward language: excommunication for dissent opinion.
In September last year, another step was taken. This was when the Faculty of Psychology decided to investigate my scientific integrity and whether the teaching material I use in the course “Critique of Society and Culture” is of adequate quality.
This procedure against me, which eventually led to the banning of my book in January 2023, is quite complex. It reads a bit like Franz Kafka. Several councils and committees were involved and it is not easy to describe this bureaucratic tangle in a way that does not become utterly boring. I’m going to try it anyway on a later occasion, but first I’m going to focus on the capstone of the logic of the process.
The most serious accusation against my book is that it’s full of errors and sloppiness. When I asked about those errors and inaccuracies, I was referred to a number of critiques circulating online. This is of crucial importance: the verdict on my book largely rests on the quality of those critical reviews.
A closer inspection of those reviews revealed to me that the style was frequently rather offensive, insulting, and in some cases downright vulgar. Why did Ghent University only select these extremely negative reviews of my book to assess its value? Why none of the dozens of positive or more neutral ones?
Extremely negative and emotional reactions are rarely accurate. That’s why I usually don’t respond to them. Sometimes the best response is silence. However, in this situation I will respond. What is at stake is no small matter. It is about the question on what grounds a university decides to ban a book.
The critical reviews of my book that were taken into account by Ghent University were written by different authors. Discussing all the texts would be a titanic task, so I’m going to start with the most crucial one.
The critical review of Professor Nassir Ghaemi was the most important one. One of the committee reports referred to it several times. I will attempt to discuss this criticism in a dry, technical manner. It might not be much fun for you to read, but anyone who really wants to know the grounds of the accusations that led to the banning of my book might find it worthwhile.
It was not easy to find a format to respond to the tangle of criticisms. I decided to first assess all points of criticism that were concrete, objective in nature, and that could be unambiguously judged on their correctness in that regard. Together with one of the proofreaders of my book, I found seven such critiques in the article and the video recording. We discuss them below. At a later stage we may also discuss the more substantive criticisms of Professor Ghaemi.
Professor Ghaemi’s discourse goes all over the place in an attempt to undermine this paragraph in my book. He adds all sorts of things that I’m not saying. Not only does he turn this into a curious discussion about the difference between observational studies and RCTs, he also makes it a discussion about the vaccine studies. How odd then that the words “observational study,” “randomized controlled trial,” and “vaccine” appear nowhere in that entire chapter of my book. Nowhere do I distinguish between different types of research, nowhere do I give separate error rates for the different types of research, and nowhere do I mention the vaccine studies in this chapter.
He repeats this a number of times (p. 88 and 89 in his article and throughout the video), to reinforce his (erroneous) opinion that I am an ‘anti-science extremist.” My book, however, clearly states: sloppiness, errors, and forced conclusion are common, but “full-fledged fraud was relatively rare, however, and not actually the biggest problem” (Chapter 1, p. 18).
Again, you can clearly see the ‘wild’ and unfounded character of the serious allegations launched by Ghaemi.
I don’t draw any such conclusions. In the context of the relativity of numbers, I do pose the legitimate question: How do you determine who dies from COVID-19? “If someone who is old and in poor health ‘gets the coronavirus’ and dies, did that person then die ‘from’ the virus? Did the last drop in the bucket cause it to spill over more so than the first?” (Chapter 4, p.54).
Again, Ghaemi fundamentally distorts my argument and then criticizes that distorted argument.
Although Ghaemi unjustly throws heavy accusations at me and my statement is in fact correct, he does have a small point here: a reference should be added, more specifically to one of the articles cited above that reports IQ scores of 130 and more.
We can draw a first preliminary conclusion about this process. We all know that people with different subjective preferences interpret a discourse differently. This will be no different for Professor Ghaemi. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied that Professor Ghaemi is very often wrong on points that can be objectively verified. Yet the decision-making process of Ghent University clearly shows that Professor Ghaemi’s criticisms have been of decisive importance in their assessment of my book.