The Chinese communist regime has laid out the strategy to take over the United States as the world’s dominant power by 2049. Meanwhile, the United States is reducing its national security by voluntarily making itself more dependent on the “green energy” that China dominates, analysts say.
“China has gotten the United States and Western Europe, and really all the developed countries, hooked on green technology,” Mr. Malloy said. At the heart of this alternative energy are technologies including wind turbines, solar panels, and electric vehicles, which are reliant on certain critical raw materials, such as graphite and rare earth elements. For many of these materials, China—the United States’ top adversary—is the world’s major supplier and processor.
“And all these rare earths go into wind technology and solar technology, EVs, as well as our cell phones and computers,” Mr. Malloy said. “The whole world really depends on China for this.”
“It’s just that they’re present in [the] soil at very low concentrations. So you have to strip mine do this,” Mr. Malloy explained.
A reason that the West stopped mining rare earths, according to Mr. Malloy, is the environmental pressure, as such practices are notoriously polluting. “But you can strip mine in China. They have no environmental regulations,” he said. “So China has volunteered to do this.”
That was not the first time the regime used its monopoly over critical metals to gain leverage. In 2010, the Chinese regime temporarily blocked the export of rare earths to Japan as tensions between the two Asian powers escalated over disputed islands following the arrest of a Chinese captain.
“It’s extremely frustrating to see our politicians with these wind mandates, and solar mandates, and EV mandates,” Mr. Malloy said. “Where are the EVs going to come from? How are we going to make them if we don’t have a good relationship with China?”
“China is the sole producer of the refined graphite that goes into every EV battery,” Mr. Malloy noted. “So if China, right now, were to stop exporting refined graphite, there would be no EV batteries made.”
While some concerned companies and governments in the West have sought to get into the graphite market, Mr. Malloy suggested it takes years to build up an industry in which China already has a decades-long lead.
The way the CCP approaches the world is “completely different” from that of the Westerners, Mr. Malloy said, contending that not so many on Capital Hill appear to understand the regime’s strategy, especially in the green technology sector.
“China’s avowed goal is to be the lone global superpower by 2049,” while the United States is accelerating the nation’s transition to green energy technology and aiming to achieve “carbon neutrality” by 2050, Mr. Malloy said. “We’re actually kind of working in the same direction” as the CCP.
“We have this geopolitical rival out there, if not a mortal enemy, called China,” Mr. Malloy said. “We are making ourselves more economically dependent on them.”