Advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) could provide breakthroughs in the way that we detect breast cancer and evaluate breast cancer risk.
A recent Swedish study found that AI was able to detect 20 percent more breast cancer than experienced radiologists—in addition to cutting their mammography reading workload by more than 40 percent. The study suggests that AI could be a useful tool for breast cancer detection as well as help doctors and radiologists to do their jobs more effectively.
The group of women who had their mammograms read by the AI as well as a radiologist had 20 percent more cancers detected than the group whose mammograms were read by two radiologists.
Carcinoma in situ can occur anywhere in the body, but there are two types associated with the breast: ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS).
Ductal carcinoma in situ occurs when cells are growing in the milk ducts of the breast, and lobular carcinoma in situ means that they’re growing in the lobules of the glands in the breast that produce milk.
In Sweden, each breast screening examination is read by two breast radiologists—called a double reading—in order to ensure accuracy. However, problematically, there’s a shortage of breast radiologists in Sweden and elsewhere. Perhaps in the future, the addition of AI can help to alleviate some of the work hours involved in reading breast screening examination results.
So what does the future hold for using AI for breast cancer screening? In a statement on the Lund University website about the Swedish study, Ms. Lang notes that screening is a complex process and states:
“The balance between benefit and harm must always be taken into account. Just because a screening method finds more cancers does not necessarily mean it’s a better method. What’s important is to find a method that can identify clinically significant cancers at an early stage.
“However, this has to be balanced with the harm of false positives and the overdiagnosis of indolent cancers. The results from our first analysis show that AI-supported screening is safe since the cancer detection rate did not decline despite a substantial reduction in the screen-reading workload.”