China has always been considered a major manufacturing country, playing a pivotal role in the global industrial division of labor. However, I believe we will see a rapid decline in Chinese manufacturing, and China will lose its status as “the world’s factory.”
China was able to attract manufacturing in the first place because of low labor costs. But the scarcity of human resources means that labor costs have become more expensive.
In 2014, a draft was submitted to the State Council for approval, led by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, in conjunction with several ministries and academics from both national academies. The “Made in China 2025” initiative involves research and development in high technology, such as CNC machine tools, robotics, new energy vehicles, nuclear energy, and nanomaterials.
This plan attracted foreign talent with lucrative pay, paving the way for the “Thousand Talents Program.” However, the program has led to many legal disputes, and some of its members have been arrested and convicted for intellectual property theft or concealing their income. One of the most famous cases is that of Charles Lieber, chair of the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology at Harvard University. In December 2021, he was convicted of concealing his participation in China’s Thousand Talents recruitment program from the federal government.
Not only has the program attracted scrutiny from the FBI, but the issue of intellectual property theft was one of the major factors that caused the trade war between the Trump administration and the CCP. Since 2017, the CCP has tried to avoid talking publicly about its “Thousand Talents Program” and “Made in China 2025.”
The United States and its allies will unite against the CCP.
China has scarce land resources, and the expensive real estate is due to the cost of land. It’s noteworthy that in recent years, Chinese investors have been buying up farmland in the United States, making them the largest foreign buyer of U.S. real estate by dollar amount between March 2021 and March 2022, with $6 billion spent over the period, according to the National Association of Realtors.
China’s transportation costs are much higher than products made in the United States because of its distance from European and U.S. markets. The increased transportation time causes the United States to stockpile goods, thus increasing storage costs.
With the development of artificial intelligence and robotics in the United States, many industries have been able to replace manual labor with machines gradually and, therefore, will cut labor costs significantly. That’s becoming less and less of an advantage to China, which relies solely on cheap human resources to compete.