Police forces in England and Wales have been urged to double the number of facial recognition searches in a government drive for using artificial intelligence (AI) tools.
It comes as the UK is about to host the first major global AI summit next week when government and industry leaders will discuss guardrails needed to mitigate the risks that come with the emerging technology.
In his letter, Mr. Philp touted “hugely” advanced algorithms that have emerged in recent months for retrospective facial recognition, saying “even blurred, or partially obscured images can now be successfully matched against custody images, leading to arrests.”
The minister said every police force has been using the technology “to some extent” but its use is “very variable between forces and could be greatly increased.”
He urged forces to double the number of searches by May 2024 so they exceed 200,000 across England and Wales.
The minister has also voiced his support for live facial recognition, which stream CCTV footage in real time to cross check pedestrians’ faces with police databases.
He said recent deployments of the technology have led to “arrests that would otherwise have been impossible.”
Live facial recognition has led to successful arrests of suspects during trials in England and Wales, but the trials have also been mired in controversy and debates around privacy, public consent, and system inaccuracies and bias such as gender or racial bias.
The department also sought to assure the public about the accuracy of the evolving technology by citing research data and said there had not been any false alerts this year over 25 deployments.
Writing on X, formerly known as Twitter, on Sunday, civil liberty campaigner Big Brother Watch said, “We did not sign up to be turned into walking ID cards by facial recognition cameras.”
However, the new technologies come with concerns and controversies, particularly around live facial recognition, which is associated with police states such as communist China.