President Joe Biden has approved an executive order that directs federal agencies to use artificial intelligence to achieve “equity” objectives—a move observers are warning is equivalent to integrating a “woke AI” into the government.
In the section, the Director of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is asked to take steps to ensure “equitable decision-making” and assist agencies in “advancing equity” where needed.
Moreover, agencies are asked to use their civil rights authorities to “advance equity for all.” Agencies should consider opportunities to “ensure that their respective civil rights offices are consulted on decisions regarding the design, development, acquisition, and use of artificial intelligence and automated systems.”
In the executive order, equity is defined as handing out “fair, just, and impartial” treatment to communities who have been denied such treatment.
Derived from Marxist teachings, equity is different from the concept of equality, where everyone in a society is treated on an equal footing, and given the same level of treatment regardless of differences in race, religion, and other factors.
“AI is a product of the data that gets fed into it … If you want to create an AI that’s got social justice values … you’re going to only feed it information that confirms that bias. So by biasing the information, you can bias the AI,” Vorhies explained.
“You can’t have an AI that collects the full breadth of information and then becomes biased, despite the fact that the information is unbiased.”
In Biden’s executive order, stress is given to “pursue ambitious goals” in line with promoting “equity in science,” and rooting out “bias in the design and use of new technologies, such as artificial intelligence.”
Disabled people and/or people with a disability, blacks, gay and lesbian people, people with a disability, homosexual people, Asians, transgender people, and Muslims ranked in the top 10. Right-wingers, rightists, lower-middle-class people, Democrats, university graduates, middle-class people, upper-middle-class people, Republican voters, Republicans, and wealthy people ranked in the bottom 10 of the list.