South Korea has been re-elected as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) with 180 affirmative votes out of 192 member states. Political analysts believe this marks the international community’s recognition of the country’s global status and influence.
This is the third time the East Asian country has served as a non-permanent member of the UNSC after serving in 1996-1997 and 2013-2014.
South Korean President Yoon Suk-Yeol spoke positively of the move, saying it was a victory for global diplomacy.
Being elected as a non-permanent member of the UNSC will be an opportunity for South Korea to develop into a global hub that contributes to the peace, security, and prosperity of the international community while playing a more important role in maintaining the international order based on universal values and rules, a spokesperson of the South Korean Foreign Ministry said at a press conference on June 7.
Bearing the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, the UNSC is the only core body that is internationally legally binding on member states. The UNSC has 15 members, of which the United States, France, Russia, the U.K., and China are permanent members, and the remaining 10 are non-permanent members.
“First, South Korea has always been a leader in science and technology, especially in the field of chips. Secondly, South Korea has been playing a crucial role in the turbulent situation in Asia, including the issues of North Korea, the Russia-Ukraine war, and the Taiwan Strait. Its position in international relations is very important,” Li told The Epoch Times on June 9.
South Korea has long been a leader in semiconductors, with companies such as Samsung Electronics and SK Hynix among the world’s top memory chip makers. However, both companies need American technology and equipment.
Since China has been South Korea’s largest trading country, it has been evasive on issues such as the persecution of human rights by the CCP, Li said.
However, South Korea’s trade balance with China plummeted in early 2023. The economic setback forced the Korean political class to reconsider its choice in international relations.
The former professor believes that after becoming a non-permanent member, South Korea will reposition its national strategy and take a clearer stance on international affairs.
He said the country would stand on the side of the free world when addressing issues in the Asia-Pacific region.
Ye Zhiqiu, a New Zealand-based media professional, agreed with Li’s analysis on South Korea’s status in the chip industry.
“The chip industry has risen to a strategic level in the international arena, not only in the civilian sector but also in the military, where high-end weapons are used,” he told The Epoch Times.
“After the COVID-19 pandemic, the international community realized that the CCP is using its supply chain to threaten and blackmail some countries, threatening their security. As a result, many companies are shifting their industrial chains away from China,” he said.
“The whole world has realized that chips, an important strategic resource, cannot be controlled by the CCP, so the importance of South Korea has been highlighted and more valued. Therefore, the admission of Korea to the Security Council is a recognition of its position and influence in the world.
Yoon said this war is being fiercely waged on the two fronts of semiconductors and secondary batteries.
The semiconductor industry is Korea’s representative industry, accounting for 20 percent of exports and 55 percent of investments in manufacturing equipment. With the combination of artificial intelligence and the military field, semiconductors have become a core element of national security.
The president also said that recent geopolitical issues are becoming the biggest business risk for enterprises, with no enterprise being immune, so the government must work with the United States and other friendly countries to solve such issues.
Ye Zhiqiu echoed Yoon’s view that no enterprise can be immune.
“Yoon’s understanding is correct … South Korea, as a country with a modest economy, cannot stand up to the CCP alone. Only by joining the democratic camp can it ensure its safety,” he said.