Two Canadian senators are boosting their ties with the Chinese communist regime through their engagement with a Chinese agency ostensibly dedicated to foreign aid while also promoting China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Sen. Victor Oh recently met with the head of the agency. Sen. Yuen Pau Woo delivered a speech at an agency “high-level conference” during which he criticized Canada for cozying up to Western allies against China.
At the Sept. 4 meeting, Mr. Luo commended Mr. Oh for his “consistent efforts in promoting Sino-Canadian friendship.” Mr. Luo, who served as Chinese ambassador to Canada from May 2014 to September 2016, also thanked Mr. Oh for his support during Mr. Luo’s tenure in Canada.
Mr. Oh did not respond to a request for comment from The Epoch Times regarding his recent trip to China and meeting with Mr. Luo.
The BRI is a project aimed at rebuilding and expanding China’s historical Silk Road trade routes, fostering connectivity between China, Asia, Europe, and other regions through significant investments in infrastructure. However, critics regard it as a tool for the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) to extend its global geopolitical and economic influence.
“A world that runs according to the rules of powerful countries is not a world that is based on the international rule of law. And it is even worse if different sets of powerful countries establish different sets of rules and practices for the partners they work with,” he said.
The Epoch Times sought clarification from Mr. Woo regarding the specific countries he was referring to.
In an email reply on Sept. 11, Mr. Woo said, “Many countries, including the U.S. and China, are preoccupied with national security and techno-nationalism, which poses a significant challenge to international cooperation.”
He did not respond as to whether Canada was among the advanced western countries that he categorized as having adopted “nationalist policies.”
In his speech Mr. Woo did not specifically identify any countries that he believed have adopted nationalist policies. However, several of the policies he criticized bear similarities to measures that Canada and its allies have implemented, such as technology or resource export bans, limitations on international research collaborations, and investment restrictions. They are considered essential strategies by Canada and the broader democratic world for protecting national security and addressing challenges posed by an increasingly assertive China.
This shift away from China encompasses more than just trade. It also involves obtaining essential natural resources, specifically critical minerals essential for producing green batteries used in electric vehicles.
Speaking on the issue of green development, Mr. Woo pointed out that many countries are struggling to fulfill their commitments, attributing this challenge to “international factors” such as the war in Ukraine, inflation, and lack of collaboration on green technologies like renewable energy.
During his CIDCA speech, Mr. Woo acknowledged China’s challenges in private international debt restructuring, considering its limited experience in this field. He noted that China faces “a steep learning curve” when it comes to negotiating settlements with various creditors, including multilateral banks.