The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has issued a reminder that some taxpayers face a looming deadline to pay estimated tax payments in order to “stay current and avoid a surprise at tax time” in the form of potential penalties for underpayment.
Certain categories of taxpayers that do not have taxes withheld from their income through an employer or other withholding agent face a Sept. 15 deadline to submit their third quarter estimated tax payments.
Estimated tax payments are typically made by individuals and entities that do not have taxes withheld from their income, including gig workers, sole proprietors, retirees, partners, and S corporation shareholders. Retirees and individuals with irregular income (such as those with seasonal) income could also be required to make estimated tax payments if their income is not subject to withholding.
The key threshold for determining whether estimated tax payments are required is if the taxpayer expects to owe $1,000 or mare in taxes when they file their annual tax return after accounting for withholding and tax credits.
“The IRS encourages taxpayers earning income not normally subject to withholding to consider making estimated tax payments throughout the year to stay current and avoid a surprise at tax time,” the tax agency said in a statement.
Having too much tax withheld and waiting for a refund at tax time is akin to giving the government an interest-free loan.
But if a taxpayer does not have enough taxes withheld from their paychecks throughout the year, they may owe a balance when they file their taxes. This means they will have to pay the remaining balance of taxes owed to the IRS when they file their tax return.
Owing a balance at tax time can be a significant financial burden, especially if the balance is large or if the taxpayer is struggling to make ends meet.
There are also penalties and interest that may apply when the taxpayer owes a balance when filing their taxes.
The IRS charges interest on any unpaid taxes starting from the original due date of the return. Penalties may also be assessed if the taxpayer fails to file their return on time or if they owe taxes and fail to pay them by the deadline.
The Inflation Reduction Act that President Joe Biden signed into law in 2022 initially included around $80 billion to expand the IRS’s budget over 10 years.
This amount has since been pared down to around $60 billion due to the debt-ceiling deal struck between President Biden and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), which clawed back $10 billion in each of calendar years 2024 and 2025 from the tax agency’s appropriations.
The new AI-powered enforcement thrust is focused on higher-earning Americans and big corporations, with the IRS pledging not to increase audit rates for people earning less than $400,000 per year.
This has been an oft-repeated promise following Republican claims that working-class taxpayers would be subjected to tougher enforcement thanks to the tens of billions of dollars in additional IRS funding.
As part of the new enforcement crackdown, the tax agency said that it would prioritize cases involving taxpayers earning over $1 million but with recognized tax debt of more than $250,000.
Taxpayers in America pay around 85 percent of the total taxes they owe, per IRS estimates, with the difference between what is owed and what is paid known as the tax gap.