The report said both candidates “vocally objected to equity, inclusion, and sex education policies.” In particular, “they were outspoken about their opposition to access to gender-affirming care for youth,” and neither was elected in 2022.
The SAMbot project tracked online abusive sentiment in eight municipal elections across Canada between August and November 2022, in Vancouver, Surrey, Ottawa, Brampton, Toronto, Winnipeg, Yellowknife, and Charlottetown.
Ottawa school trustee candidate Nili Kaplan-Myrth, a family doctor who advocated for COVID vaccination and other pandemic measures, received the highest number of abusive tweets of any Ottawa candidate, with 29 percent (21,460) of the 74,823 tweets sent to her categorized as abusive. About 1 in 10 (7,530) were deemed threats by the SAMbot software. She was elected in 2022.
It said SAMbot categorized a high proportion of the abusive tweets received by Pfahl and Boschy as identity attacks, respectively 16 percent (2,559 tweets) and 15 percent (339 tweets) of all tweets they received.
SAMbot assesses a tweet as an identity attack whether it’s directed at the candidate or another individual or group.
“In this case, a significant portion of the identity attacks received by these candidates were not targeting their demographic characteristics, but instead, their opposition to teaching gender inclusivity and anti-racism in schools. Tweets that described these candidates as transphobic, racist, or similar terms were evaluated as identity attacks by SAMbot,” said the report.
“In a climate where the rights and safety of the 2SLGTBQIA+ community is under attack we want to underscore our support for gender diversity. The protection of trans rights is critical for a healthy Canadian democracy,” said the centre, which describes itself as non-partisan and in support of democracy.
The report explained that SAMbot uses “AI [artificial intelligence] for civic inquiry in order to better understand technology’s influence on our democratic culture.”
It said that because of the limits of using artificial intelligence, “identity categorization should be regarded as a way to understand the prevalence of transphobic rhetoric in school board trustee races.”