In 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court handed down a landmark decision that police officers had acted illegally in collecting months of cellphone data from a private company, without a warrant, to track the movements of a robbery suspect.
The Constitution’s Fourth Amendment protects Americans against government searches unless there is probable cause of a crime and a court-issued search warrant.
Revelations of alleged surveillance abuses such as these have prompted federal and state lawmakers—Democrats and Republicans alike—to develop new laws in an attempt to restore Americans’ Fourth Amendment rights.
The Carpenter case reversed what up to that point had been a green light given by courts for law enforcement to search Americans’ personal information if they shared it with a third party, such as a bank, phone company, credit card company, or tech company. This was known as the “Third Party Doctrine,” and it had been in effect since the 1970s, when the Supreme Court ruled that the Bank Secrecy Act, which allowed the government to conduct blanket searches of private bank data without a warrant, didn’t violate the Fourth Amendment.
“Not so with the smart home,” Ms. Manning wrote. “In the home enhanced by artificial intelligence, there is no reasonable expectation of privacy in data shared with third parties such as Amazon.”
The Third Party Doctrine argued that handing over one’s personal information to a bank was a choice, and thus Americans voluntarily surrendered their rights to privacy. Today, however, with utter dependence on cellphones, credit cards, online purchases, and the like, sharing personal data is essential to participating in modern society.
Smart home systems, such as Amazon’s Alexa/Echo system, are the latest battleground between law enforcement and privacy rights, and there have been several recent cases of police demanding access to Amazon data, often without a warrant, under federal statutes such as the Stored Communications Act (SCA), a 1986 law that governs electronic communications, including texts and email.
“To obtain electronic communication records under the Stored Communications Act, the Government need only show reasonable grounds to believe the records are relevant and material to an ongoing criminal investigation,” the Georgetown report states, while noting that “Chief Justice [John] Roberts called the reasonable grounds standard ‘a gigantic departure from the probable cause rule.’”
According to the ODNI report, federal agencies have been buying up “large, sophisticated databases with consumer information that can include credit histories, insurance claims, criminal records, employment histories, incomes, ethnicities, purchase histories, and interests.” The report also notes the “potential for comparable abuse of CAI held by the [intelligence community]. In the wrong hands, sensitive insights gained through CAI could facilitate blackmail, stalking, harassment, and public shaming.”
In addition, according to the ACLU, the DHS has been paying millions to data brokers such as Babel Street and Venntel, which collects more than 15 billion location points from more than 250 million cellphones every day. These data allow the agencies to match devices to locations and “identify repeat visitors [and] frequented locations, pinpoint known associates, and discover patterns of life ... to identify persons of interest.”
This has led some to call for new legislation to restore Americans’ Fourth Amendment protections from unwarranted government searches and from abuse by private tech and financial companies.
“Doing business online doesn’t amount to giving the government permission to track your every movement or rifle through the most personal details of your life,” Mr. Wyden stated at the time.
“There’s no reason information scavenged by data brokers should be treated differently than the same data held by your phone company or email provider. This bill closes that legal loophole and ensures that the government can’t use its credit card to end-run the Fourth Amendment.”
On May 11, Tennessee signed into law the Tennessee Information Protection Act (TIPA), joining California, Utah, Colorado, Connecticut, Virginia, Iowa, and Indiana in mandating that people have more control over their personal data. The TIPA mandates that large technology companies such as Google, Instagram, and TikTok must disclose to consumers what information is being collected about them through their online activities and how the company intends to use it.
Tennesseans will also be able to opt out of selling their personal information to third parties. The legislation also includes protections for biometric data such as voice records, fingerprints, retinal scans, and facial recognition.
“The overwhelming amount of personal information that large technology companies collect about us while we’re online is truly stunning,” House Majority Whip Johnny Garrett (R-Tenn.), the lead sponsor of TIPA, told The Epoch Times. “The Tennessee Information Protection Act is the culmination of a multi-year effort that will provide important safeguards for consumer-provided data while also increasing transparency and oversight.”
“Of course, that consent is a fiction: Many cell phone users don’t realize how many apps on their phones are collecting GPS information, and certainly don’t expect that data to be sold to the government in bulk.”
Jake Morabito, communications and technology director at the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), told The Epoch Times: “States are increasingly focused on consumer data privacy protections; however, some state laws governing law enforcement access to data are woefully out of date and in need of an upgrade.
“The internet and technology landscape has evolved drastically in just two short decades. Today’s consumers engage with a host of third-party digital services and cloud providers that were not even imagined when many of these statutes were first written.”
Overall, only 14 percent of Americans thought this was a good idea, with Americans 45 and older most strongly against it.
“Americans over age 45 have vastly different attitudes on in‐home surveillance cameras than those who are younger,” the report states. “Being raised during the Cold War amidst regular news reports of the Soviet Union surveilling their own people may have demonstrated to Americans the dangers of giving the government too much power to monitor people. Young people today are less exposed to these types of examples and thus less aware of the dangers of expansive government power.”
“A lot of younger Americans right now don’t seem to put as much value as some of the older generation on [civil] rights,” Mr. Watkins said. “I’m hoping that’s a temporary thing.