Amid negative publicity surrounding its live-action remake of the 1937 classic Snow White, Disney has delayed the film’s release date by a full year.
The movie, based on the 19th-century German fairy tale written by the Brothers Grimm, is now slated to open in cinemas on March 21, 2025. The film was previously set for release on March 22, 2024, but production was delayed by Hollywood strikes demanding regulation of artificial intelligence impacts to the industry amid the project experiencing more than one public relations setback in recent months.
“It’s extremely dated when it comes to the idea of women being in roles of power and what a woman is fit for in the world,” Ms. Zegler said during an interview with fellow cast-mate Gal Gadot, referring to the movie based on the Grimm fairy tale.
“It’s no longer 1937,” the actress said in another interview.
“She’s not gonna be saved by the prince, and she’s not gonna be dreaming about true love. She’s dreaming about becoming the leader she knows she can be, and the leader her late father told her that she could be if she was fearless, fair, brave, and true.”
Ms. Zegler’s interviews have gone viral, instigating a swell of negative reactions toward the actress and the upcoming film from conservatives.
“In the recent past, actors recreating iconic characters and stories spoke of them in loving ways,” said conservative film critic Christian Toto, host of the Hollywood in Toto Podcast. “Even Drew Barrymore sang the praises of the original ‘Charlie’s Angels’ series, hardly a high-water mark for pop culture. It seems counter-productive to do the opposite.
It was last year that the studio pledged to “avoid reinforcing stereotypes” with their remake of Snow White after Game of Thrones star Peter Dinklage, who has a form of dwarfism called achondroplasia, criticized Disney for putting resources into a “backward story.”
“Take a step back and look at what you’re doing there,” Mr. Dinklage said. “It makes no sense to me. You’re progressive in one way, but then you’re still making that [expletive] backward story about seven dwarfs living in a cave together.” (Some might say that they actually cohabitate in a cozy cottage).
The studio responded with a statement. “To avoid reinforcing stereotypes from the original animated film, we are taking a different approach with these seven characters and have been consulting with members of the dwarfism community. We look forward to sharing more as the film heads into production after a lengthy development period.”
Now, in response to Disney’s attempt to take the casting of the film in a “new direction” to “avoid reinforcing stereotypes,” it seems that CGI dwarfs have been selected over live actors.
“Disney has lost $900 million at the box office on recent films, and something tells me that figure is only going to worse,” he added.
“This isn’t the days where studios micro-managed stars, down to who they dated or what they said in public. That’s good!” Mr. Toto said.
But he added the caveat: “Studios should also let their stars know that when they speak to reporters about their projects, it’s best to stay positive and consider how their opinions will impact the public’s curiosity for the stories in play.”
In terms of the film’s delayed release, Mr. Toto said it seems like a logical move at this point.