A Chinese nuclear research and development lab has gained access to U.S.-made semiconductors even though such institutions have been banned from making similar technological procurements for more than two decades.
Most of the chips acquired by CAEP were in the sizes of 7 to 14 nanometers, which China struggles to mass produce. However, these chips can be bought on the open market, even from online marketplaces.
A review of CAEP papers showed that at least 34 of them referenced using U.S. semiconductors in research. In at least seven of these instances, the research carried out could be linked to the maintenance of nuclear stockpiles.
In six papers, researchers discussed using chips to improve the operation of inertial confinement fusion devices that use high-powered lasers to trigger fusion reactions similar to what happens on a bigger scale when using thermonuclear weapons.
“As mass-market products move through multiple parties in global supply chains, full visibility on ultimate end users is a large undertaking,” the U.S. Department of Commerce said, according to the Journal. The agency will seek to vigorously enforce the updated export regulations that Washington introduced in October 2022, it added.
Last October, the U.S. government issued new export controls that block U.S. companies from selling advanced semiconductors, and the equipment used to manufacture them, to some Chinese manufacturers unless a special license is obtained. In December, the government expanded these restrictions to apply to 36 more Chinese chip makers.
Washington has also effectively prohibited U.S. citizens from supporting the production or development of chips covered under the restrictions. U.S. nationals who participate in Chinese chip-related companies will either have to quit their jobs or give up citizenship.
The day the ban came into effect, hundreds of Chinese Americans who worked in semiconductor companies in China were said to have resigned from their posts.
“In Europe, we fully agree with the objective of depriving China from the most advanced chips. And the same goes for quantum technologies.”