According to Spengler, writing during the Great War, one should not see Europe or the West in “Ptolemaic” terms as being the centre of history, and other cultures as orbiting around it. As Copernicus had done in astronomy, removing the centrality of the earth, the same had to be done with Western culture.
Moreover, he claimed, every culture has a unique “destiny,” and all of them display developmental phases of life and death, just like living beings. Nor did he see European culture as being anything exceptional; in fact, at the time it was already in the declining phase of “civilization,” instead of the earlier, vigorously creative stage of “culture” that reached its apogee during the Enlightenment, and like all other cultures, would eventually perish.
It is not difficult to perceive in contemporary world (and not only Western) culture similar characteristics of cultural alienation and the predominance of machine culture, increasingly manifesting itself as the valorisation of AI (artificial intelligence). But instead of the cultural forces highlighted by Spengler, just over a hundred years after the publication of his epochal work it would turn out that a comparatively small group of individuals, motivated largely by financial and economic considerations pertaining to the possibility that they might lose their grip on power, would be instrumental in precipitating a catastrophic, controlled collapse of Western society, but also the rest of the world. Should their attempt be successful, a global collapse would be unavoidable.
This is because, although the mechanisms set in motion by this powerful and unscrupulous group have targeted mainly Western societies—given their cultural and political attachment to democratic, individual-oriented values, which had to be dislodged at all costs—the global interconnectedness of economies harboured a domino-effect principle of disintegration.
To be sure, this miniscule, but disproportionately wealthy band of thieves has access to virtually incomprehensible institutional, technological, media, and military power, which explains why, for almost four years now, they have been able to keep the world in an iron grip at several levels. The latter include the medical, the economic, and possibly soon (unless it can be thwarted) the financial and the urban-spatial (in the guise of 15-minute cities).
The irony should be clear, however: whereas Spengler attributed the demise of the West deterministically to the life-cycle of cultures generally, a comparatively small group of would-be dictators have been pulling out all the stops to bring (particularly) Western societies to their knees, thus clearing the way for their neo-fascist, centrally controlled, totalitarian world state.