“The foreign policy establishment has seized jurisdiction over all things domestic,” Mike Benz says. “Whoever controls the Department of Dirty Tricks can remove all opposition on the political, social, and cultural side.”
In a recent comprehensive interview on “American Thought Leaders,” host Jan Jekielek spoke with Mike Benz about today’s censorship regime and how tactics once used abroad were deployed to target Americans and so-called election delegitimization or COVID-19 “misinformation” online. Benz is the executive director of the Foundation for Freedom Online and a former State Department diplomat under the Trump administration.
And then, in quick succession, you had a candidate for president who at the time was an almost 20–1 underdog in The New York Times. It was thought that he couldn’t win, and yet he did. And both events were viewed as internet elections, if you will.
Nigel Farage developed the popularity of Brexit through his viral YouTube speeches to the European Parliament. Twitter hashtags and Facebook groups were responsible for Donald Trump’s popularity with his base. So you had an organized effort to contain this populism by containing the means through which populists could mobilize and distribute their messaging.
You’ve got the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), FBI, Department of Defense (DOD), the State Department, the National Science Foundation, the CIA, and the National Endowment for Democracy. On issues like COVID-19 censorship, you’ve got the Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases all playing various roles at the government level.
Then you’ve got the private sector, the tech platforms where the censorship occurs. That’s where the button gets pressed, where the algorithms play out.
Then you’ve got corporate social responsibility and the universities, NGOs [nongovernmental organizations], activists, nonprofits, and foundations.
Finally, you’ve got the politically like-minded media that can manage public narratives and amplify pressure for censorship.
When they have disinformation conferences, representatives from all four institutions will talk with each other about doing favors for favors. They’ll work out common problems.
In late 2016, when I first came across literature around the deployment of artificial intelligence for purposes of content moderation, I became fixated on the threat this posed. But nobody took my concern seriously. Now the infrastructure is consolidated and much harder to stop.
There were Twitter files for the FBI, the DHS, the DOD, and the State Department. These files tended to focus on one-off requests for censorship takedowns. For example, the FBI would contact the Twitter Trust and Safety Team saying: “Here’s a batch of six or seven tweets we don’t like. They violate your terms of service, so you may want to take them down.” But that only captures the tiniest fraction of censorship in each of the major geopolitical events in the past few years.
Consider these six or seven takedowns in the context of something like the Election Integrity Partnership (EIP), which formerly had a partnership with the Department of Homeland Security to operate as their designated disinformation flagger. Twenty-two million tweets were categorized as misinformation for purposes of takedowns or throttling through the EIP.
Compare that to the six or seven tweets highlighted in a Twitter files dump, and it’s not even in the same ballpark. It wasn’t just about individual takedown requests; it was about government pressure to coerce the tech companies to create whole new categories of censorship and then arming them with the artificial intelligence to scan and ban the new thought violations.
The EIP, using the DHS’s clout and pressure on the back end, coerced the tech companies to create a category of censorship called delegitimization, which was anything in the 2020 election that delegitimized public confidence in mail-in ballots, early voting drop boxes, or ballot tabulation issues on election day; 100 percent of their targets were Trump voters and right-wing populist groups.
But in between, they rebranded themselves as a new entity, VP, the Virality Project. But instead of doing election censorship, they did COVID-19 censorship, with the exact same ticketing system. They had the same relationships with Facebook, Google, YouTube, Twitter, TikTok, Reddit, and the 15 different platforms they monitored. They then began censoring opposition to COVID-19 origins, vaccine efficacy, mask mandates, or narratives about Bill Gates or Anthony Fauci.
Let me add that COVID-19 started at the end of 2019, before the 2020 election, and actually the COVID-19 censorship consortium began immediately. Graphika, for example, is one of the four component entities of the EIP censorship consortium that the DHS partnered with. It’s a U.S. Department of Defense-funded censorship consortium initially funded to do social media counterinsurgency work in conflict zones for the U.S. military. Then, it was redeployed domestically to monitor social media discourse about COVID-19, COVID-19 conspiracies, or other issues.
Now, we’re going directly from that into this system of mass domestic censorship, where if you challenge mail-in ballots in a Twitter post, the Department of Homeland Security will categorize you as conducting a cyberattack on U.S. critical infrastructure, because you’ve undermined public faith in the elections.
They did that in the censorship industry through the creation of a Russian boogeyman that was said to have hacked the 2016 election and to have created these bot farms, troll farms, and Facebook pages that magically disappeared right before the 2020 election.
It was a hoax from the start, but it was a useful one, because it allowed the handoff of the censorship infrastructure on the foreign side to be grafted onto the domestic side.