President Joe Biden will meet with activists, academics, and tech executives on June 20 to discuss artificial intelligence.
The latest of many recent Biden AI moves, it’s another signal of his administration’s continued focus on race and “algorithmic discrimination” in its attempts to control the evolution of the burgeoning technology.
In a June 19 statement to the press, a White House official said Biden’s summit in San Francisco would include experts known for being “outspoken on the impact of AI on jobs, children, bias and prejudice, [and] the risks posed by AI if it isn’t properly regulated.”
The official noted that it would also include “those who understand the benefits it [AI] provides for education and medicine if this technology is built safely from the start.”
“The White House Chief of Staff office is overseeing a process to rapidly develop decisive actions we can take over the coming weeks. White House principals have met to discuss this issue 2-3 times a week in addition to ongoing daily work being done across the White House and agencies,” the official added.
Those likely to take part include Joy Buolamwin, founder of the Algorithmic Justice League.
“Alex Jones InfoWars conspiracies were recommended 15 billion times before being removed,” he said.
The Biden White House official noted that Stanford University political science professor Rob Reich was also expected to attend the meeting.
The Rob Reich at Stanford should not be confused with an identically named influential liberal academic at a nearby university, former Labor Secretary Robert Reich.
Oren Etzioni, another tech insider expected to participate in the event, and the son of Israeli-born communitarian theorist Amitai Etzioni, has been even less shy in voicing anti-Trump sentiment.
Jim Steyer, the founder of Common Sense Media and brother of billionaire Democrat mega-donor Tom Steyer, will also be at the summit, according to the White House official.
“AI is a top priority for the President and his team. Generative AI tools have increased significantly [sic] in the past several months and we don’t want to solve yesterday’s problem,” the official said.
“The Biden-Harris administration has focused on this issue since taking office. U.S. government agencies have ramped up their authorities to protect Americans from the risks posed by AI, including fraud and discrimination.”
“The department holds that biases in AI algorithms must be addressed when they introduce or sustain unjust discriminatory practices in education,” the report states.
It ranked algorithmic discrimination “of the highest importance” among the potential risks from AI.
One speaker, University of Michigan intermittent lecturer and AI ethicist Merve Hickok, proposed a possible “Algorithmic Safety Bureau” to address bias and other issues from the technology.
The San Francisco meeting comes after some tech leaders, most notably Elon Musk, have cooled on the commander-in-chief ahead of his reelection bid.