Elon Musk said that ChatGPT and other recent advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) could pose a significant risk to civilization itself and that people should be on their guard.
“One of the biggest risks to the future of civilization is AI,” the Tesla and Twitter owner said at the World Government Summit in Dubai on Wednesday. Musk was one of the co-founders of OpenAI, which made the popular service ChatGPT.
“It’s both positive or negative and has great, great promise, great capability,” Musk said in reference to artificial intelligence and ChatGPT.  Then, he argued that “with that comes great danger.”
Released a to the public a few months ago, ChatGPT is an advanced form of AI that uses a language model known as GPT-3. Its programming allows it to understand human language and come up with responses.
While Musk was involved in OpenAI, he left the company’s board in 2018. He also no longer holds a stake in the firm, which recently received a $1 billion investment from Microsoft.
“Initially it was created as an open-source nonprofit. Now it is closed-source and for profit,“ Musk told the attendees of the summit. ”I don’t have an open stake in OpenAI, nor am I on the board, nor do I control it in any way.”
Musk said that ChatGPT “has illustrated to people just how advanced AI has become,“ adding, ”The AI has been advanced for a while. It just didn’t have a user interface that was accessible to most people.”
But Musk warned that there needs to be regulation. He noted that laws and rules “may slow down AI a little bit, but I think that that might also be a good thing,” Musk added.
“AI is replacing the white-collar workers. I don’t think anyone can stop that,” Pengcheng Shi, an associate dean in the department of computing and information sciences at Rochester Institute of Technology, told the New York Post several weeks ago. “This is not crying wolf,” Shi added of AI’s capacity to take away jobs. “The wolf is at the door.”
“Copy editing is certainly something it does an extremely good job at. Summarizing, making an article concise and things of that nature, it certainly does a really good job,” Chinmay Hegde, a computer science and electrical engineering associate professor at New York University, told the New York Post last month.
But Hegde noted that the chatbot has some significant limitations in its current state.