Almost 4,000 American jobs were lost last month following the use of artificial intelligence (AI), according to a recent report, as businesses increasingly consider deploying AI in their regular operations.
When asked how they planned to use the AI, implementing the tech as a tool to make employees more productive took the first spot. Replacing some of the employee functions and streamlining operations came in at the second spot. Using AI to boost employee and customer experiences was ranked third and fourth.
After analyzing various types of tasks from over 900 different occupations, the economists estimated that roughly two-thirds of occupations in the United States are exposed to “some degree” of AI automation. In addition, anywhere from a quarter to as much as half the workload in the exposed occupations could be taken over by AI, they forecast.
“Despite significant uncertainty around the potential for generative AI, its ability to generate content that is indistinguishable from human-created output and to break down communication barriers between humans and machines reflects a major advance with potentially large macroeconomic effect,” the economists wrote.
ChatGPT estimated that it could replace customer service representatives, a job that employs 2.9 million people in the United States; data entry clerks, which employ 1.4 million; and copywriters, which employ 347,000 individuals. Technical writers, as well as translators and interpreters, are other jobs among the five jobs the AI said it could replace.
The chatbot also claimed that it could create jobs in fields like computer science, data science, machine learning, robotics and automation, math and statistics, and business.
Jobs requiring a bachelor’s degree or higher were also more impacted by AI than jobs only needing an associate’s degree or less.
“People used to say that the robots are going to destroy skilled labor. Well, not really. I haven’t seen any plumbing robots. I haven’t seen any electrician robots. And I don’t think we’re going to see any artificial intelligence in the skilled trades to that degree. You can’t stop it. All you can do is decide to freak out completely or not,” he said.
Rowe also pointed out that people can get pushed into skilled employment like welding even though there is a stigma surrounding these jobs.