Delta Airlines has banned TikTok. Delta employees had until Friday afternoon to remove the app from phones, computers, and other smart devices that connect to company systems.
The airline is just the latest entity to restrict TikTok’s use in the United States. Concerns about the Chinese app’s use of American data are finally starting to have a widespread impact.
That can’t happen soon enough, say experts.
Beijing sees the scramble for global data as an important part of its strategic competition with the West, forcing Chinese high-tech companies to share data and serve its goal.
In 2013, during his first months in power, Xi talked about data in the same way that Mao Zedong talked about indigenous oil production in the 1950s, during which Mao was seeking to break the regime’s dependence on the Soviet Union.
In 2016, Xi Jinping asked Chinese intelligence and security agencies to adopt a “24/7 all-round network security situation awareness.”
“What Xi does in China is a good precedent for what he wants to do in other countries—surveillance, and control,” James Lewis, senior vice president of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, told The Epoch Times on July 3.
The Hoover report noted that Chinese tech companies that venture overseas are integrated with the CCP’s data storage and processing, control, and security systems. Through data platforms, apps, and companies controlled by the CCP, Western users access and linger in an entire ecosystem from which the CCP can continually steal data.
“The Party has long required private companies to establish Party organizations and used legal and extralegal measures to bend private companies into submission. The pressure has been most acute on technology companies, such as Alibaba,” reads the report. “In 2016, the deputy director of the Cyberspace Administration of China, Ren Xianliang, stated: ‘Since the establishment of Cyberspace Administration of China [in 2014], we place great emphasis on Party-building activity within Internet companies. It is a strategic task for the development of [China’s] Internet industry.’”
U.S. Navy Capt. (Ret.) Carl Schuster, former director of operations at U.S. Pacific Command’s Joint Intelligence Center, believes that CCP leaders are encouraging Chinese companies to expand overseas.
“Given China’s law that directs all information developed in China or by a Chinese company is the property of the CCP and PRC, that harvested data provides insights and information vital to every aspect of China’s efforts to undermine the U.S. and replace as the leading influence on global affairs,” Capt. Schuster told The Epoch Times on July 1.
“For example, data on Americans’ entertainment, product, and information source preferences is very useful to PRC business people, trade, and intelligence officials, and political warfare analysts,“ Capt. Schuster said. He gave a concrete example:  ”In conflict, sabotaging American drones or possessing the data on American use of drones might provide insights that better enable PRC military commanders to anticipate and interpret U.S. military operations and plans.”
Anders Corr, principal at Corr Analytics Inc. and Epoch Times contributor, said that while data is key to all modern systems necessary for state power and expansion, including economic, political, and military, too few Americans and allies realize it.
(Dado Ruvic/Illustration/File Photo/Reuters)
Mr. Corr attributed Beijing’s easy access to American data to Americans’ naivety.
Founded in 2006, DJI rose to prominence by producing drone models and parts, eventually becoming a leader in the drone industry. In this process, American venture capital played a key role. In 2014, DJI raised $30 million from Sequoia China; in 2015, it raised $75 million from Accel Partners, giving it a valuation of more than $10 billion. In just four years—from 2011 to 2015—DJI’s revenue grew a hundredfold, thanks to American investors.
BGI Genomics, a leading global provider of genome sequencing, was described by its co-founder Wang Jian as a “big data company.”
In 2016, BGI established a national gene bank in Shenzhen with the mission to “store, manage, and utilize genetic resources” and “serve the strategic needs of the country.”
The gene bank is operated by BGI but approved and funded by several CCP agencies, including the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology and the National Health and Family Planning Commission.
Genetic resources are the strategic resources of the regime and the basis for future competition in the bioeconomy, according to the website of the National Development and Reform Commission, which also approved the gene bank’s development.
The BGI–CCP partnership in the gene bank means that genetic data collected from Western countries is at risk of entering the Chinese genetic database and being used as a “strategic resource.”
In 2018, BGI announced a partnership with Johns Hopkins University and Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto, Canada to study pancreatic cancer and develop a diagnostic test for preterm birth. BGI provided sequencing services for both projects.
In October 2022, the CCP amended its party constitution to include a new imperative: “dare to struggle.”
John Hemmings, senior director of the Indo-Pacific Foreign and Security Policy Program at the Pacific Forum, said Mr. Xi views the issue through a very Marxist historical, materialist lens.
“The world’s two biggest economies by nominal GDP are the United States and European Union. If both economies banned companies from China and Russia, it would weaken our two most dangerous adversaries and incentivize them to democratize, thus becoming part of the solution globally, rather than the sources of our biggest problems,” he said.
Capt. Schuster echoed the concern.
“The web and information systems enjoy and provide global reach, so any knowledge-conflict, which is the philosophical foundation underpinning Xi’s concerns about ‘core technologies,’ will be global in nature. That conflict will determine the outcome of what Xi calls the ‘great struggle’ that he hopes will shape the international system for the remainder of this century,” he said.
Mr. Xi has driven China to invest heavily in AI, faster and better computer chips, and Quantum key technologies, which is a technologically complex yet not fully mastered means for providing and attacking communications and computer data encryption, Capt. Schuster warned.