Research has revealed fluoride has both beneficial and harmful effects in people and animals but many of the more critical findings of potential harm are strongly debated.
One of the studies presented compared cancer death rates of 10 of the largest fluoridated cities to 10 of the largest un-fluoridated cities year by year. The tracking started in the cities before fluoridation began and found that the cancer death rate for both groups of cities prior to fluoridation was for the most part identical.
The study found that cancer death rates showed a drastic increase in fluoridated cities around the time the fluoridation program began, while the cancer death rate increase in the non-fluoridated cities didn’t significantly increase.
Burk’s work has been sharply criticized, and later studies challenged the link between fluoride and cancer. He was and still is targeted by fluoridation proponents who say he failed to correct for age, sex, race, and cancer site distribution in some of his studies. Despite this, Burk’s work was largely responsible for the termination of fluoridation in the Netherlands, the Berkeley Entomology Collections noted.
Prior to Burk’s work, a similar report in the 1955 New England Journal of Medicine showed a 400 percent increase in thyroid cancer in San Francisco during the period that the city had fluoridated drinking water, reported Gladys Caldwell and Dr. Philip Zanfagna in their 1974 book “Fluoridation and Truth Decay.”
Mullenix has a doctorate in pharmacology with a specialty in neurotoxicology and completed a post-doctorate at Johns Hopkins School of Public Health in environmental medicine.
After a career at both the department of psychiatry at Children’s Hospital in Boston and the department of neuropathology at Harvard Medical School, she took a position at the toxicology department at the Forsyth Dental Research Institute, the first toxicology department established in any dental research institution in the world.
In her lecture, Mullenix recounts that Dr. Jack Hein, the director of the institute, was suspicious that many of the dental products were possibly causing neurological issues.
Mullenix was tasked with applying a new computer-based screening technology she developed to look at the environmental impact and the neurotoxicity of products that are used by dentists and the dental community. Fluoride was the first substance she studied.
First, “there was no question that behavior was vulnerable to fluoride,” regardless of a very short exposure when young, prenatal, or early postnatal “all you needed was 2 or 3 days exposure to this [fluoride] and it caused a permanent change in behavior when the animals grew up,” she said.
If you took all the other exposures away except for that one exposure, it was enough to “permanently change the behavior,” Mullenix said.
The second major finding in the study was that the effects varied with age she said. If the rats were exposed prenatally, the behavior change observed was hyperactivity and when rats were exposed as weanlings or adults they displayed what the scientists called “couch potato syndrome,” or hypoactive behavior, similar to chronic fatigue.
The third major finding was that “fluoride accumulated in the brain, and this is very different than what the literature had said before.” The literature up to this point said that it didn’t get into the brain and it doesn’t bioaccumulate, “and we know that this is wrong,” concluded Mullenix.
In her study, the fluoride-exposed females had double or triple the amount of fluoride in the hippocampus regions of the brain compared to the control.
“We support this process and look forward to seeing their final report, which is likely to help answer a number of your questions,” the CDC responded.
In their research, the NRC committee found gaps in the information on fluoride that prevented the committee from making some judgments about the safety or the risks of fluoride at concentrations of 2 to 4 mg/L.
The committee urged the scientific community to carefully conduct more research on exposure to fluoride especially endocrine effects and brain function and recommended that the EPA should “update the risk assessment of fluoride to include new data on health risks and better estimates of total exposure (relative source contribution) for individuals.”
The committee also urged the EPA to consider susceptible subpopulations, uncertainties, and variability in their assessment.
The NRC review of neurotoxicity and neurobehavioral effects of fluoride stated that based on “information largely derived from histological, chemical, and molecular studies, it is apparent that fluorides have the ability to interfere with the functions of the brain and the body by direct and indirect means.”
They noted that “fluorides also increase the production of free radicals in the brain through several different biological pathways. These changes have a bearing on the possibility that fluorides act to increase the risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease.”