Two-thirds of occupations across America could be partially automated by artificial intelligence (AI), Goldman Sachs economists have warned.
As part of their report, the two economists analyzed databases detailing the type of tasks performed in over 900 different occupations and estimated that about two-thirds of U.S. occupations are exposed to “some degree” of automation by AI.
In addition, they forecast that roughly a quarter to as much as half of the workload in the exposed occupations could be replaced by AI.
“Despite significant uncertainty around the potential for generative AI, its ability to generate content that is indistinguishable from human-created output and to break down communication barriers between humans and machines reflects a major advance with potentially large macroeconomic effect,” the economists wrote.
While they acknowledge concerns regarding advanced AI and possible job losses, Briggs and Kodnani note that not all automated work will definitely translate into layoffs.
The Goldman Sachs economists did, however, point to the benefits of advanced AI making its way into business and society, such as enhanced productivity and sales efforts and improved manufacturing among companies, as well as better patient diagnosis in health care settings.
This, they say, could lead to an almost $7 trillion increase in global GDP.
“While much is unknown about how generative AI will influence the world economy and society, and it will take time to play out, there are clear signs that the effects could be profound,” the economists concluded.
Specifically, that study found that roughly 80 percent of the U.S. workforce could have at least 10 percent of their work tasks affected by the introduction of large language models like ChatGPT, while approximately 19 percent of workers could see at least 50 percent of their tasks impacted.
Elsewhere, Twitter CEO Elon Musk has addressed the potential threats posed by advanced AI technology.
During an interview with Fox News host Tucker Carlson that aired in two parts on April 17–18, Musk said that AI poses potential “risks to society and humanity.”
“AI is more dangerous than, say, mismanaged aircraft design or production maintenance, or bad car production in the sense that it has the potential—however small one may regard that probability, but it is non-trivial—it has the potential for civilizational destruction,” Musk told Fox.
Last month, the industrialist joined more than 1,100 individuals, including experts and industry executives such as Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, Stability AI founder, and CEO Emad Mostaque, in signing an open letter calling on all AI labs to “immediately pause” training of systems more powerful than Chat GPT-4 for at least six months.
In their letter, experts warned that contemporary AI systems are “now becoming human-competitive at general tasks” and questioned whether or not we should “automate away all the jobs, including the fulfilling ones.”