China and the United States agreed on Aug. 28 to set up a new “commercial issues” working group and begin regular discussions on export control enforcement information in U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo’s first face-to-face meeting with Chinese officials on her four-day visit.
Another agreement reached during the talks would begin an “export control enforcement information exchange,” which would provide a “platform to reduce misunderstandings of U.S. national security policies,” according to the statement. The first face-to-face meeting is planned for the assistant secretary level at the Ministry of Commerce in Beijing on Aug. 29.
Speaking after the Aug. 28 meeting with the regime’s Commerce Minister Wang Wentao, Ms. Raimondo said the United States wouldn’t compromise with the Chinese regime on national security.
“Now I want to be clear: We are not compromising or negotiating in matters of national security. Period,“ she said. ”But this is meant to be a dialogue where we increase transparency and where we are clear about what we are doing as it relates to export-controlled enforcement.
With the bilateral ties worsening and tensions simmering, the Biden administration is seeking to reopen high-level communication lines with China and has sent four cabinet officials to Beijing in the span of three months.
Mr. Wang told Ms. Raimondo that the economic ties between China and the United States are important not just to the two countries, but also to the whole world.
He said Beijing is ready to work with Washington to “foster a more favorable policy environment” for cooperation between the two countries’ businesses to “bolster bilateral trade and investment in a stable and predictable manner.”
The authorities have slapped Mintz, another U.S. due-diligence firm, with a $1.5 million fine in a security crackdown after police raided its Beijing office and detained five local employees.
The deteriorating business environment is on the list of potential subjects that Ms. Raimondo will tackle during her four-day visit. Her trip includes meetings with senior Chinese officials and U.S. business leaders in Beijing and Shanghai.
Outside observers, meanwhile, warned that Beijing’s willingness to engage with the United States isn’t for peaceful cooperation.
“When we look back on China’s growth over the past 20 plus years, evidence is down that U.S. tech transfer has enabled the CCP and the People’s Liberation Army, the PLA, to strengthen.”
“As long as Xi Jinping is in power, he will strive to realize his ‘China Dream’ and make himself the leader of the world,” Mr. Feng told The Epoch Times on Aug. 28, as the two commerce chiefs were meeting in Beijing.