Specifically, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) will be releasing draft guidance on government AI use.
“It will also empower agencies to responsibly leverage AI to advance their missions and strengthen their ability to equitably serve Americans—and serve as a model for state and local governments, businesses and others to follow in their own procurement and use of AI,” the administration’s announcement reads.
The National Science Foundation will be creating seven new national research institutes devoted to AI with $140 million in funding. There are already 18 such hubs in the United States.
“The new Institutes announced today will advance AI R&D to drive breakthroughs in critical areas, including climate, agriculture, energy, public health, education, and cybersecurity,” the announcement reads.
The administration has also secured agreements from prominent AI developers to take part in an upcoming public assessment of AI effectiveness and safety.
Google, Microsoft, and Nvidia are among the participants mentioned.
The evaluation will occur in August during the DEFCON 31 hacking conference in Las Vegas.
“This will allow these models to be evaluated thoroughly by thousands of community partners and AI experts to explore how the models align with the principles and practices outlined in the Biden–Harris Administration’s Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights and AI Risk Management Framework,” according to the announcement.
“As is true with all technologies, we know there are some serious risks,” a senior administration official told reporters during a May 3 press conference, noting that the administration would make use of existing authorities in its efforts to regulate AI.
“Tech companies have a fundamental responsibility to make sure their products are safe and secure and that they protect people’s rights before they’re deployed or made public.”
The administration also previewed a meeting led by Vice President Kamala Harris with top leaders at Microsoft, OpenAI, Alphabet, and Anthropic regarding the responsible use of AI.
The official said the meeting would allow for a “frank discussion” on AI development and AI risk.
The official told reporters that President Joe Biden has made it apparent that “algorithmic discrimination” on the part of companies warrants action by Congress.
“This is clearly a global technology,” the senior administration official said when asked about the possibility of greater coordination between the United States and the EU on AI.