The modern music industry is witnessing a transformative phase, with Artificial Intelligence (AI) playing a starring role in its evolution. From aiding artists in composing tracks to potentially replacing them, AI’s influence is noteworthy, eliciting varied opinions from experts and musicians alike.
AI has come to the forefront in recent years, with more advanced AI being introduced to the public, such as the highly popular chatbot Chat GPT, a product of technology company Open AI.
The technology has breathed new life into various industries and has opened up tremendous opportunities for innovation, but it has also raised concerns of damaging or replacing some human artistry, such as the art of music.
She said she doesn’t currently use it for her music but is aware many artists are using the technology to assist them with lyrics and even chord progressions.
“All my songs come straight from my heart, soul and personal experiences, so the lyrics simply flow out of me and onto the paper,” she said. “[I] work with highly experienced and renowned producers and sound mixers to come up with the musical compositions for my songs so I don’t need AI to do this.”
In addition to her preference to use human talent, she called herself “technologically challenged”—preferring “the old-fashioned way.”
“The music I create is deeply personal, and I’m not sure a machine could evoke the same feelings and emotion. I’m not completely opposed to using AI in my creative process. I just haven’t found a way that fits my process just yet.”
She added as the technology advances, there will be a time when she welcomes AI with open arms for her work.
“There’s a lot of gloom and doom talk in the industry about how AI will make creatives obsolete,” he said. “I don’t believe this. I do believe we'll all be using AI in our daily work. It will disrupt certain areas and be integrated into the tools we already use, but as of today, it still has some hard limits.”
His point of view comes from experience working with some AI-driven projects in the studio and in live performances.
“Both require a lot of ’massaging' to behave in a meaningful way,” Guarino shared. “In some situations, they create more work, not less. AI models require a lot of human input to learn what meaningful output is. If people start training AIs on music with significant portions also generated by other AI, the quality of the model gets worse, not better.”
He said people overall still value craftsmanship, authenticity and human creativity.
“Novelties like hologram concerts and digital character influences will probably stay just that, novelties, not become the norm.”
He said some technology always drums up media attention, such as “the metaverse,” where everyone would be “collaborating in goggles via digital spaces,” but people seem to prefer “just being in the same room together.
“I think AI is in the middle of the same kind of hype cycle right now,” he added. “It’s simply a new tool, which often can speed up very repetitive, labor-intensive tasks that take up lots of time.”
An example, he said, are more tedious tasks such as editing audio, cutting samples out of long recordings, and leveling tracks.
Wright stressed the irreplaceable depth and uniqueness of human creation, telling The Epoch Times, “The power of the human touch in music is a force in its own right.”
He said currently, artists are becoming the victims of AI implementation on records “where artists do not get paid for newly created (involuntarily) material.”
“Therefore, royalties often and unfortunately belong to the newly registered ‘creator’ and publisher,” he said. “For independent artists, the legal pursuit may seem like an uphill battle, particularly if individuals do not even own trademarks. In all honesty, it seems like AI is intimidating to many that do not have enough education on the matter that can provide them with protection from being outsourced or used in the sense of their voice being emulated.”
He said he feels the struggles of producers and songwriters can be similar, but the wall is higher.
He has made a name for himself in music and tech as an active recording artist, most recently in generative AI, working with a range of household name companies.
Recognizing AI as both a potential peril and promise, he underscores possibilities ranging from posthumous albums to the reconstructive magic of voices while also voicing concerns about the shared fan experience and artist representation.
“Generative AI is both a threat and an opportunity for the music industry,” he said. “It’s a threat because, just like when streaming came out, record labels have the upper hand here. With streaming, the labels made deals that were beneficial to them and not necessarily to the artists.”
He added most recording contracts have clauses that labels have the rights to “do whatever they want” in new media.
“So, many artists may already be in a deal where the label can use their likeness and voice to create new music and put it out without their consent,” he said. “Imagine how many more posthumous Tupac albums we'd have if he is still considered valuable ‘intellectual property.’ Also, people have the ability to create fake music and put it out, like what happened with that Drake and The Weeknd song.”
He said AI could also be a threat to the shared fan experience, because the industry may move in a direction where listeners have a more personalized experience, possibly having implications for concerts.
He told The Epoch Times AI could be “the greatest disruptor we’ve seen” but in the form of a double-edged sword.
He said low-end jobs like creating background music can easily be generated by AI and “will likely be good enough with no need for royalties to be paid.”
“On the other hand, AI is just a tool like a synthesizer or a word processor that, when properly used, can provide a valuable resource to creators,” he said. “AI can be a very valuable assistant for mastering, instrument isolation, creating playlists, suggestions when a songwriter is in a corner lyrically and a plethora of other use cases.”
As for copyrights, he said this area of AI in the industry is complex and not yet fully defined.
“When a component of a work is copied, the original creator is allowed a portion of the revenue,” he said. “AI is trained on the creative works of millions of creators. Creators would say they deserve compensation for this use.”
He added another drawback to AI is that it only learns retroactively, trained on all the music before 1962, it would “never have come up with the Beatles.”
“One pressing question will be if fans care only about the song or do they also care, perhaps even more so, about the artist who sang the song,” he said. “I don’t think Taylor Swift Fans (Swifties) would be so engaged around a virtual artist with no humanity.”
“People have a right to know if something was created by a human or an AI (or both) and this should be visible to listeners,” he added. “There needs to be protection for people’s voices just as there is for their likenesses.”
With all new technologies, he added, there are winners and losers, and creatives will need to adapt, and guardrails must be put in place.
With the potential for both discord and harmony, the future beckons a coalescence of technological prowess and human artistry.