Director James Cameron claims he tried to warn people about the dangers posed by artificial intelligence (AI) in his 1984 movie “The Terminator” but that his concerns fell on deaf ears.
Mr. Cameron, who has directed a string of films including “Avatar” and “The Titanic,” made the comments in an interview with CTV News which aired on July 18.
The Oscar-winning director said he had attempted to raise his concerns about AI nearly 40 years ago when “The Terminator,” which he co-wrote and directed, hit screens.
The movie centered on a cyborg assassin, played by Arnold Schwarzenegger, who travels back in time to kill Sarah Connor, played by actress Linda Hamilton, whose unborn son will be the one to save humanity and prevent a nuclear holocaust sparked by an AI system.
“I warned you guys in 1984, and you didn’t listen,” Mr. Cameron said, adding that he “absolutely” shares the general consensus among various AI experts that rapidly advancing technology needs to be regulated to ensure it does not pose a threat to humanity.
Mr. Cameron also said he believes it is also important to ensure that the individuals and companies working on advanced AI technology are doing so for the right reasons, otherwise, there could be deadly consequences.
“I think the weaponization of AI is the biggest danger,” he said. “I think that we will get into the equivalent of a nuclear arms race with AI, and if we don’t build it, the other guys are for sure going to build it, and so then it'll escalate.”
Mr. Cameron’s comments echo those of multiple experts including businessman and Twitter owner Elon Musk, who recently told U.S. lawmakers that regulations are needed for AI to prevent companies from taking “dangerous” shortcuts that could negatively impact humanity when rolling out advanced technology.
Mr. Musk also spoke about China’s communist regime, which is seen as a growing threat to the United States when it comes to the AI dominance race and has been outspending the United States on such technology.
“The rapid development of artificial intelligence (AI) will profoundly change human society and life and change the world,” the 2017 plan states.
Ms. Khanna and Mr. Gallagher echoed comments made by other Republican lawmakers that the CCP may be looking to use its increasingly advanced technology to “perfect a technical totalitarian surveillance state” and for other negative reasons.
However, Mr. Musk, who recently visited China in May, told lawmakers that he believes China is “on team humanity,” when it comes to artificial intelligence, telling the lawmakers that he had spoken with senior Chinese officials during his trip and they had expressed an interest in working on a cooperative international regulatory framework for AI.
Touching on the issue of potential job losses owing to AI in his interview with CTV News, Mr. Cameron said he does not believe the technology is currently at or will soon be at a level where it can replace movie writers.