The House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has urged the treasury secretary to implement President Joe Biden’s executive order on outbound U.S. investment restrictions in key technology areas in China.
“As Treasury deliberates on the definitions and scope to be issued in these guidelines, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is developing advanced technologies, with the help of American capital and know-how,” they said in the letter, urging Ms. Yellen to issue rules and guidelines so that U.S. firms can be aware of what investment restrictions to avoid.
The order, which is set to be effective next year, will authorize the Treasury Department to issue regulations that restrict U.S. investments in Chinese firms in three sectors, including “semiconductors and microelectronics, quantum information technologies, and artificial intelligence.”
The committee recommended the Treasury Department to “adopt a broad definition” of three restricted sectors as the CCP uses an “expansive concept of national security” and “blurs the line between national security and normal commercial matters,” as well as evades narrowly defined restrictions. The committee noted that it does not recommend exceptions as they can weaken the effectiveness of the measures. It also seeks maximum penalties for those who violate the regulations.
In addition, the committee suggested that the United States cooperate with allies and partners to limit the CCP’s military modernization efforts.
It also noted that the regulations should not just apply to active investment. Still, passive investments via public markets, such as mutual funds or index funds, should be taken into consideration, as many U.S. investments in Chinese tech firms are made via those types of public funds.
“It is likewise using advancements in quantum computing and semiconductor manufacturing to support the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).”
The letters also request that the leadership of each of the funds answer a series of questions regarding their investments in Chinese companies, including what companies they are investing in, the dollar amounts of each investment, their policies concerning investments in such companies, and what course of action the funds would take if companies they invested in were sanctioned by the U.S. government.
“American venture capital and private equity investments in [Chinese] AI, quantum, and semiconductor companies directly contribute to the PRC’s human rights abuses, military modernization, expansion of authoritarianism around the globe, and the [CCP’s] overall effort to supplant U.S. technological leadership,” the letter said, referring to the country’s official name, the People’s Republic of China.
In July, the committee opened an investigation into asset management firm BlackRock and index provider MSCI, alleging that these firms facilitated passive investments into blacklisted Chinese companies.
The investigation revealed that BlackRock had invested over $429 million from five funds in such companies. The company manages over $9 trillion in assets and handles investments for millions of Americans.
The committee expands its focus by examining asset managers and index compilers like BlackRock and MSCI, even though they may not directly involve Chinese companies in their portfolios or indexes. However, according to the panel, their role in directing substantial amounts of Americans’ retirement savings into these companies is considered crucial and a cause for concern.