Tesla CEO Elon Musk met with Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) on Capitol Hill on April 26, and the two talked about artificial intelligence (AI) and electric vehicles.
“We talked about the future,” Musk told reporters after finishing his meeting, which lasted about an hour. “We talked about AI and the economy.”
Schumer told reporters that the two “had a very good meeting.” The New York congressman added, “We talked about Buffalo, Tesla has a large plant in Buffalo. And we talked about AI.”
His proposal would require companies to allow independent experts to review and test AI technologies prior to their public release or update and gives users access to those results.
Schumer’s office cited China’s release of draft rules on regulating AI days earlier, calling it “a wake-up call to the nation.”
“Leader Schumer believes that it is imperative for the United States to lead and shape the rules governing such a transformative technology and not permit China to lead on innovation or write the rules of the road,” his office said.
“AI systems with human-competitive intelligence can pose profound risks to society and humanity,” the letter says. “Powerful AI systems should be developed only once we are confident that their effects will be positive and their risks will be manageable.”
“I think this might be the best path to safety, in the sense that an AI that cares about understanding the universe is unlikely to annihilate humans because we are an interesting part of the universe,” Musk told Fox News.
“[W]ith the increasing use of AI across large swaths of our economy, and the possibility for large language models to be steadily integrated into a range of existing systems, from healthcare to finance sectors, I see an urgent need to underscore the importance of putting security at the forefront of your work,” the letter says.
Warner wants the CEOs to respond to 16 questions before May 26, on how each company was taking steps to prevent security breaches, malicious use, and misinformation.
Also on Wednesday, Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo said the Biden administration is working “as aggressively as possible to figure out our approach” to AI, according to Reuters.
“The challenge is you don’t want to stifle innovation in a brand new area with massive potential,” Raimondo said. “The risks related to misinformation and deep fakes etcetera are massive.”