Two former Air Force Academy Class of 1989 graduates have been nominated by President Joe Biden to take command of the U.S. North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) and the four-year-old U.S. Space Command (SpaceCom).
Air Force Lt. Gen. Gregory Guillot, currently U.S. Central Command deputy commander, has been named to lead NORAD, a joint U.S–Canada command that monitors aerospace and maritime threats. He is also nominated to manage U.S. Northern Command, which includes the Arctic.
Space Force Lt. Gen. Stephen Whiting, who is the first and current commander of Space Operations Command and served as Air Force Space Command director, would lead SpaceCom, created in 2019 as the newest branch of the U.S. military.
At a July 26 hearing to consider the nominations, the Senate Committee on Armed Services asked Lt. Gen. Guillot about NORAD’s domain awareness, hypersonic missile systems, nuclear arsenals, Hawaii missile defense, growing threats in the Arctic, unmanned weapons systems, artificial intelligence (AI), the Chinese regime’s advances in developing a Fractional Orbital Bombardment System, and how NORAD can assist with border security.
“That is correct, senator, there were other comments regarding specific political parties that were in addition to the comments you cited,” Lt. Gen. Whiting said, noting it was an hour-long podcast that featured numerous comments that violate DOD policies.
Mr. Schmidt, a former prosecutor and Missouri attorney general asked, “Is opposition to DEI partisan political speech?”
“No it’s not unless it advocates for a specific political party or candidate,” Lt. Gen. Whiting said, adding that Lt. Col. Lohmeier was relieved because of “a specific quote involving a specific political party” on a podcast “where he identified himself as a Space Force commander.”
Lt. Gen. Whiting said that he shouldn’t and answered in the negative again when Mr. Schmidt asked whether Gen. Milley should be relieved of command for comments supporting DEI, which could be construed as “partisan political speech.”
“Do you support DEI initiatives in the military?” the senator asked several times.
Lt. Gen. Guillot said it would be his “top priority” to integrate NORAD’s capabilities with “whole-of-government efforts” to secure the border.
“The drug threat [from fentanyl] is acute, significant, and serious,” he said, pledging “direct support” for federal, state, and local agencies engaged in border security.
“If I am confirmed, due to the importance of this mission—as soon as possible after the change of command—I will go down to the southern border and meet not only with the U.S. military assisting lead law enforcement agencies, but also with the interagency [participants], the intel community, and Mexican military partners,” Lt. Gen. Guillot said.
The general said he would tour the border from California to Texas to better understand the issue and assess how the forces under his command could deal with this “very serious problem.”
Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.) said he is co-sponsoring a defense budget amendment with Sen. Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) to designate fentanyl as a national security threat “to encourage DOD to be more forward-leaning in this fight.”
Ms. Ernst asked how he “would improve mil-to-mil cooperation” with Mexico and Central American nations to better surveil who and what is headed for the border.
“Border security is national security, and national security is an element of homeland defense. It would be a top priority of mine,” he said.
An hour into the hearing, Sen. Angus King (I-Maine) said that based on average rates, during that hour, “12 Americans ... died of drug overdoses” attributed to fentanyl but “everybody is pointing to everybody else” about who is responsible and what is needed to gird the border.
“What has come through to me is the lack of central authority. You are the closest thing to that,” he told Lt. Gen. Guillot, adding that he would like to see “a special task force created to better organize the effort” and that the NORAD chief should lead it.
“I will take charge of assessing that for DOD,” Lt. Gen. Guillot said.
“We don’t have operational control of the border,” Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) said, calling for better use of drones and noting Department of Homeland Security data show that there had been “more than 100 Russians trying to cross border” in recent months.
Russian intelligence has more officers deployed in Mexico “than anywhere else in the world,” he said, noting that “98 terrorists” have been “caught at the border” in the past few years.
Mr. Tuberville announced in January that he would block the Senate’s routine unanimous consent process in advancing hundreds of DOD promotions in one vote to protest a Pentagon policy that provides support for service members and dependents who must travel out of the states in which they are based to receive abortions.
As a result, according to the Pentagon, command-level promotions have been delayed for 265 senior officers with as many as 650 estimated to be affected by the end of the year unless the hold is lifted.
On July 20, the Senate Armed Services Committee reported out favorably a list of 2,699 military nominations in the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force—including that of Gen. Brown as the uniformed commander of the nation’s military—within the proposed defense budget.
If Mr. Tuberville, a member of that committee, dissents, then every nomination must be confirmed individually. At the July 26 hearing, he didn’t address the holds.
But Sen. Mark Kelly (D-Ariz.) did.
“Let me point out the words ‘if confirmed,’” he said, noting that the nominees used the phrase as a qualifier in their responses.