While cancer is a disease that most commonly affects people over 50 years old, a joint U.S.-UK cancer funding review found that over the past 30 years, there has been a rise in cancer rates among people under 50 in multiple countries.
Individuals born in 1960 are more likely to develop cancer before reaching age 50 than those born in 1950. Furthermore, this risk is expected to rise in future generations persistently.
On a global scale, the cancer review revealed that out of the 14 types of cancer witnessing rising prevalence, eight of them—colorectal, esophageal, extrahepatic bile duct, gallbladder, head and neck, liver, pancreatic, and stomach cancers—affect various components of the digestive system.
Additionally, for those under 50, some of the cancers that are increasingly being found appear more aggressive than those in older people, such as bowel, breast, and prostate tumors.
The report, released on June 12, found that both across-the-body fat accumulation and fat distribution in different parts of the body create diverse cancer risks that depend on a person’s sex. The cancers identified include colorectal, esophageal, and liver.
Researchers Mathias Rask-Andersen and Åsa Johansson from Uppsala University in Sweden say that the study’s findings could change how we assess a person’s cancer risks.
“Doctors and scientists are aware that obesity increases cancer risk, but this connection is less well known to members of the public,” said the study’s first author, Rask-Andersen.
“Fat stored in the abdomen is considered more pathogenic compared to subcutaneous fat. In addition, the amount of fat stored in different compartments, as well as the rates of most cancers, is known to differ between females and males. These facts motivated a careful sex-stratified analysis of adiposity-related cancer risk,” said Johansson.
Additionally, Johansson said there appeared to be a difference in the effect of obesity on cancer risk, not only between males and females but also between post- and premenopausal females.
“Most remarkable, obesity is only a risk factor for breast cancer after menopause, probably due to the change in estrogen production in association with menopause,” she said.
Specifically, the study found that in women, obesity increased the risk of gallbladder cancer, endometrial cancer, and esophageal adenocarcinoma. In men, it was demonstrated to increase the risk of breast cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma (the most common form of liver cancer), and renal cell carcinoma.
Ultimately, the study found that most cancers, except brain, cervical, and testicular cancers, were associated with at least one obesity-related trait.
A limitation of the cancer review is the insufficient data available from low- and middle-income countries, hindering the identification of trends in cancer incidence over the years. To address this, the researchers plan to use advancements in information technologies and artificial intelligence to bridge the research gaps.