A group of 65 MPs and peers, backed by 31 charities and civil rights groups, have called for the use of live facial recognition surveillance to be “immediately stopped.”
The statement comes after policing minister Chris Philp announced plans this week to make UK passport photographs searchable by police officers using facial recognition technology.
It is also being used by private companies at events and conferences.
Among the 65 signatories of the statement were Liberal Democrat Party leader Ed Davey, former Brexit Secretary David Davis, Green MP Caroline Lucas, and former shadow attorney general Baroness Shami Chakrabarti.
“However, all of these views lead us to the same following conclusion. We call on UK police and private companies to immediately stop using live facial recognition for public surveillance,” it concludes.
The director of Big Brother Watch, Silkie Carlo, said, “The UK’s reckless approach to face surveillance makes us a total outlier in the democratic world, especially against the backdrop of the EU’s proposed ban.”
Ms. Carlo said, “There must be an urgent stop to live facial recognition, parliamentary scrutiny and a much wider democratic debate before we introduce such a privacy-altering technology to British life.”
The Met said the individuals were arrested in order to prevent a breach of the peace and on suspicion of conspiracy to cause a public nuisance in The Mall and in Whitehall on May 6.
The Met’s Assistant Commissioner Matt Twist said officers had “intelligence” in the hours before the coronation to suggest activists planned to disrupt the procession.
Mr. Twist said, “We had real concerns that such efforts would not only disrupt a once-in-a-lifetime event of enormous national significance, but that they could also compromise the security and safety of participants and the wider public.”
He did not comment on whether facial recognition technology was used to identify those who were arrested.
Last month it emerged Graham Smith, chief executive of Republic, is suing the Metropolitan Police over his arrest on the day of the coronation.
He claimed the police’s actions were a breach of his freedom of speech and his right to peacefully protest against the monarchy.
On its website, the Metropolitan Police said: “LFR [live facial recognition] is not a ubiquitous tool that uses lots of CCTV cameras from across London to track every person’s movements. It is a carefully deployed overt policing tactic to help locate a limited number of people the police need to find in order to keep London safe.”