Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates says artificial intelligence (AI) is as good as human tutors. Here are some reasons why he is wrong.
Mr. Gates believes that AI can change education for the better, stating at the ASU+GSV Summit in San Diego that “AIs will get to that ability, to be as good a tutor as any human ever could.”
He said, “Let’s make them explain math to each other.”
As someone with a Masters of Teaching, who has taught primary, secondary and university students, it is apparent to me and no doubt to every other teacher that these comments show just what a lack of understanding these two have in regard to face-to-face teaching.
It would be difficult, if not near impossible, for a chatbot to foster break-out sessions.
School students need discipline and an authority figure to encourage them to participate in the lessons. If they were in a classroom with a chatbot, with no one to encourage them, the majority of the students in most schools would not comply with a chatbot.
It is highly likely they would get out their phone and play on it until they were told not to (even if phones were banned because there would be no human to enforce the rule.)
While discipline is paramount in a classroom, the most important thing a teacher can do is build up students’ confidence.
When a student has confidence, they are more likely to learn, as the fear of failure will not hold them back. Confidence also means being motivated to attend classes regularly and complete work.
One example of building confidence in students is in presenting to the class. This is a key life skill that is useful for the classroom, the boardroom, and the playground.
Many students are not confident in public speaking, with some shying away from this skill altogether.
During my practice as a teacher, I found that it was key to understand what the students were interested in and build this into lessons. This made students want to learn. It ensured that they grew and felt supported in their learning.
Teachers adapt and change their teaching methods for individual students. Not only do they impart knowledge on the curriculum, but they are able to instil values and life skills for students by working in groups and pairs and presenting back to the class.
Teachers are also able to help students to think critically in regard to what they are learning.
Teaching is not just about the transfer of knowledge. It is about creating a conducive environment for learning. It is about building confidence and inspiring students to do their best.
Technology may also increase the problem of misinformation, especially through creating echo chambers.
Students need to be able to debate peacefully with those who have different opinions rather than name-calling. Social media is a breeding ground for a lack of debate and personal attacks if someone disagrees with the echo chamber’s beliefs.
When students do not use technology and come face to face with someone they disagree with, they are far more likely not to create conflict via personal attacks.
Learning how to debate issues in a classroom is one of the strategies teachers use to develop critical thinking. Again, this is a skill that AI has no success in achieving.
The importance of human contact was seen after the COVID lockdowns resulted in a huge lack of behavioural learning development.