The U.S.–China chip war is heating up. The world’s two largest superpowers are clashing over semiconductors that determine increasingly more of our lives, from when the smart toaster pops in the morning to what we write to our friends, family, and colleagues using ChatGPT in the afternoon.
The future of humanity rides on who controls AI and who controls the most powerful chips that give the indispensable computing punch to AI and other leading economic and military technologies.
Computer chip manufacturers that might lose key technologies to adversary nations—most notably communist China—are therefore coming under increasing attention from authorities in the United States, the Netherlands, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan, where top chips are designed and manufactured.
Therefore, Washington’s plan for enhanced chip controls on China takes on critical national security significance for both Europe and Asia. Yet the largest U.S. chip companies, who benefited from approximately $63 billion in combined Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) Act subsidies and tax breaks, oppose the restrictions. Their biggest customers are in China, the “world’s factory” that produces most electronics products, not to mention serves as a transshipment hub to the world’s most dangerous regimes.
On July 17, executives from Intel, Qualcomm, and Nvidia lobbied Biden administration officials, including Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, national security adviser Jake Sullivan, and National Economic Council Director Lael Brainard.
“The heads of Intel, Nvidia, and Qualcomm are putting profits ahead of national security,” he said in a July 19 statement. “These CEOs are lobbying against export controls designed to keep the Chinese Communist Party away from AI technology.”
Mr. Rubio noted that U.S. capital and chips strengthen the Chinese regime.
“We cannot allow China to get its hands on advanced AI chips,” he said. “I urge the Biden Administration and my congressional colleagues to stand firm and not give in to these CEOs’ last-minute lobbying.”
“US officials have warned for years that China incentivizes intellectual property theft with a vast system of cash grants, tax breaks and other perks designed to induce Chinese nationals living abroad to bring back expertise and trade secrets,” Bloomberg reported.