Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-Wis.) urged President Joe Biden to take steps to ensure that U.S. investments will not be used to fund the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) human rights abuses and technological developments posing a national security risk to the United States.
“For too long, America has funded the CCP’s military buildup, technological ambitions, and human rights abuses and allowed the CCP unconstrained access to our capital markets and dynamism and efficient capital allocation that they enable,” wrote Mr. Gallagher, who chairs the House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party.
“Many intelligent, well-meaning people claim the U.S. is in a serious competition with China. They are wrong. No country in serious competition with another sends it almost $800 billion over four years. This is what the U.S. did between 2017 and 2020,” the report reads.
The committee is poised to investigate whether those investments resulted in U.S. dollars used to fund the CCP’s military or human rights abuses.
“As you know, some U.S. investment flowing into the PRC [People’s Republic of China] poses a significant national security risk, exposes Americans to material and systemic financial risks, and makes them complicit—often unwittingly—in human rights abuses,” Mr. Gallagher wrote in his letter.
Yet there is currently no mechanism for preventing this, and the United States lacks data on the exact amount of money going to China.
“Despite these clear risks and the U.S. Government’s longstanding efforts to address national security threats stemming from inbound foreign investment, no mechanism exists for the U.S. Government to require disclosure of, much less restrict, outbound capital flows into such foreign adversary companies,” he wrote.
First, the order must include private (venture capital, private equity) funding and public investments (the majority). Second, technology-related sectors that support the CCP’s forced labor and genocide need to be restricted.
“This could start with five to six priority sectors from the critical and emerging technologies identified by your Office of Science and Technology Policy,” he wrote. “Follow-on rules could include the remaining sectors on that list as well as those prioritized by the PRC ... those rules should ensure that U.S. money does not support the ongoing People’s Liberation Army (PLA) buildup, facilitate the CCP’s human rights abuses or techno-totalitarian surveillance system, or deepen our dependency on the PRC in critical supply chains.”
He further recommended investment rules to “safeguard shareholder rights,” holding Chinese companies to the same due-diligence standards as domestic companies, “including by addressing the obvious risks posed by variable interest entity structures.”
Mr. Gallagher said that, as much as possible, the restrictions should not operate on a case-by-case screening basis that would be “unwieldy, impractical, and unnecessarily burdensome to the U.S. private sector.”