Health warnings on cigarette packages started in 1969 after the release of a report from the U.S. surgeon general about risks related to smoking. Now, the surgeon general’s office has found something as dangerous as smoking 15 cigarettes per day: loneliness.
The recently released 82-page report, “Our Epidemic of Loneliness and Isolation,” takes a troubling but hopeful look at who’s lonely and why it matters. The report offers recommendations that individuals can try right away to feel more connected, such as disconnecting from excessive social media use and spending less time in front of screens and more time in front of people. The report pulled information from many studies.
Loneliness is more than just a bad feeling. It harms individual and societal health, according to the report. It’s associated with a greater risk of cardiovascular disease, dementia, stroke, depression, anxiety, and premature death. The mortality impact of being socially disconnected is similar to smoking up to 15 cigarettes per day and is even greater than obesity and physical inactivity.
Large population studies have documented that among initially healthy people tracked over time, those who are more socially connected live longer, while those who experience social deficits, including isolation, loneliness, and poor-quality relationships, are more likely to die earlier, regardless of the cause of death, according to the report.
“The harmful consequences of a society that lacks social connection can be felt in our schools, workplaces, and civic organizations, where performance, productivity, and engagement are diminished. Given the profound consequences of loneliness and isolation, we have an opportunity—and an obligation—to make the same investments in addressing social connections that we have made in addressing tobacco use, obesity, and the addiction crisis,” Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy wrote in the study’s introduction.
He called for building more connected lives in a more connected society.
Failure to connect with others will bring increased risk to personal and collective health, ultimately causing society to splinter and divide until we can no longer stand as a community or a country, Murthy said.
While the highest rates of social isolation are found among older adults, young adults are almost twice as likely to report feeling lonely than those older than 65. The rate of loneliness among young adults has increased every year between 1976 and 2019.
Adults with lower incomes are more likely to be lonely than those with higher incomes. Sixty-three percent of adults who earn less than $50,000 per year are considered lonely, which is 10 percent higher than those who earn more than $50,000 per year.
Membership in organizations that have been important pillars of community connection has declined significantly. Research produced by Gallup, the Pew Research Center, and the National Opinion Research Center’s General Social Survey shows that since the 1970s, religious preference, affiliation, and participation among U.S. adults have declined. In 2020, just 47 percent of Americans said they belonged to a church, synagogue, or mosque. That’s down from 70 percent in 1999. It’s the first dip below 50 percent in the history of the survey question.
“Religious or faith-based groups can be a source for regular social contact, serve as a community of support, provide meaning and purpose, create a sense of belonging around shared values and beliefs, and are associated with reduced risk-taking behaviors,” the report reads. “As a consequence of this decline in participation, individuals’ health may be undermined in different ways.”
Family size and marriage rates have been in steady decline for decades. The percentage of Americans living alone has also increased from decade to decade. In 1960, single-person households accounted for only 13 percent of all U.S. households, according to the report. In 2022, that number more than doubled to 29 percent of all households.
The reasons people remain single, have smaller families, and live alone are varied, but these changes contribute to more social disconnection and fewer supports to draw upon in times of need.
The benefits are as familiar as the harms listed in the report. Social media displaces in-person engagement, monopolizes our attention, reduces the quality of our interactions, and diminishes our self-esteem. This can lead to greater loneliness, fear of missing out, conflict, and reduced social connection.
For example, frequent phone use during face-to-face interactions between parents and children or between family and friends creates distraction and reduces conversation quality. This lowers self-reported enjoyment of time spent together in person, the report states.
Social media, smartphones, virtual reality, remote work, artificial intelligence, and assistive technologies changed how we live, work, communicate, and socialize.
Nearly all teens and adults younger than 65 years of age—96 to 99 percent—and 75 percent of adults 65 and older say they use the internet. Americans spend an average of six hours per day on digital media, and 1 in 3 U.S. adults aged 18 and older report that they’re online “almost constantly.”
The percentage of teens aged 13 to 17 who say they’re online “almost constantly” has doubled since 2015.
When looking at social media specifically, the percentage of U.S. adults 18 and older who reported using social media increased from 5 percent in 2005 to roughly 80 percent in 2019.
Social connection declined more during the COVID-19 pandemic, with one study finding a 16 percent decrease in network size from June 2019 to June 2020 among participants.
Not only are social networks getting smaller, but levels of social participation are also declining.
Frontline workers had different experiences than those who could work from home.
Parents managing their own work and their children’s online school had a different experience than single young people unable to interact in person with friends.
The report makes five broad recommendations:
1. Strengthen social infrastructure in local communities: Invest in local institutions that bring people together.
2. Enact pro-connection public policies: Consider social connection when writing policy.
3. Mobilize the health sector: Train health care providers and assess patients.
4. Reform digital environments: Establish and implement safety standards and support the development of pro-connection technologies.
5. Deepen our knowledge: Increase public awareness.
The report recommends that workplaces put in place policies that protect workers’ ability to nurture their relationships outside work, including respecting boundaries between work and nonwork time, supporting caregiving responsibilities, and creating a culture that supports these policies.
Recommendations for parents include investing in their relationships with their children by recognizing that strong, secure attachments are protective and a good foundation for other healthy relationships. And modeling healthy social connection, including constructive conflict resolution; spending time together; staying in regular contact with extended family, friends, and neighbors; setting time aside for socializing away from technology or social media; and participating in community events.
Recommendations for individuals include minimizing distraction during conversation to increase the quality of the time spent with others.
Don’t check your phone during meals with friends, important conversations, and family time. And look for ways to serve and support others, either by helping your family, co-workers, friends, or strangers in your community or by participating in community service.