Australia’s top scientific research agency has become the latest government-run body in the country to cancel the Chinese social media app Tiktok.
A spokesperson for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) told The Epoch Times that the agency regularly reviews the identity of appropriate security controls to reduce the likelihood of a compromise.
“The CSIRO works with other relevant government agencies to continually review and identify appropriate security controls to reduce the likelihood of a compromise to our information, services, and assets,” the spokesperson said.
“A decision was made that we will be restricting access to TikTok on CSIRO’s network and devices for this reason. This is in line with similar decisions made by other Commonwealth Government agencies.”
“It is good to see more and more government departments and agencies recognise the cyber security risks caused by apps like TikTok,” he said.
“But millions of Australian users remain unprotected from an app which is closely connected to the Chinese Communist Party.
“TikTok is an attractive database of the habits, psychology, (and) personal preferences of over one million young Australians,” Hastie said.
“That’s powerful intelligence to have on our future political, military, business, and social leaders,” he added.
“TikTok does not remove content based on sensitivities related to China. We have never been asked by the Chinese government to remove any content and we would not do so if asked. Period,” the representatives said.
In the United States, for example, there is a bipartisan push to implement new laws aimed at banning the app.
Reps. Mike Gallagher (R-Wisc.) and Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-Ill.), who chair and co-chair the House Select Committee on the CCP, reintroduced bipartisan legislation to ban TikTok from operating in the United States on Feb. 17.
The Averting the National Threat of Internet Surveillance, Oppressive Censorship and Influence, and Algorithmic Learning by the Chinese Communist Party Act (ANTI-SOCIAL CCP Act) aims to protect Americans by blocking and prohibiting all transactions from TikTok and other social media companies in or under the control of, China, Russia, or several other foreign countries of concern.
Gallagher said that the move and its bipartisan support were denotative of how severe the threat posed by companies tied to the CCP was.
“Allowing the app to continue to operate in the U.S. would be like allowing the U.S.S.R. to buy up The New York Times, Washington Post, and major broadcast networks during the Cold War,” Gallagher said in a prepared statement.