As with the first movie, the sequel is keen to highlight the contrast between peaceful natives living off the land and the violent invaders destroying their world. There’s a colonial angle here, but there’s an environmental one too. Both movies uphold living in harmony with Mother Nature as a virtue, and they decry human industrialization and exploitation of the environment.
The hunting of the whale-like Tulkun in “Avatar: The Way of Water” is a great example of the movie’s one-sided portrayal of humans and the environment. In the movie, the Tulkun are presented as benevolent sea creatures that are deeply intelligent and avowed pacifists. They communicate with each other and with the native Na'vi people using a special Tulkun language, and they’re respected by almost all creatures.
Much of the movie’s plot revolves around a group of Tulkun hunters who unashamedly kill the sea creatures for this serum—that is, for the money. As the movie portrays it, this is just humanity at its worst, taking advantage of Mother Nature out of reckless greed, indifferent to the suffering it causes.
The movie uses a variety of tactics to make sure the injustice sinks in. First, it hints the Tulkun are more wise and intelligent than humans, which immediately suggests ethical issues with killing them. It also follows their stories and families, allowing the audience to build an emotional attachment to the species.
But there’s an alternative perspective that isn’t considered here, and it has to do with the $80 million price tag. When that number is presented, we’re supposed to think of pure greed, but this is an incredibly biased perspective. To alleviate this bias, we need to look past the money to what that money represents.
It’s worth asking ourselves, what’s so bad about helping humanity become better off? Do we have a moral obligation to suffer and die if the only alternative is killing an animal?
“The dominant way of thinking about our environment is what I would call the delicate nurturer view,” he said. “So the idea is that earth is naturally stable, it’s safe, and it’s sufficient. ... The idea is that absent us screwing things up, we basically live in the garden of Eden.”
The truth, he argues, is quite the opposite. “The actual nature of our environment is wild potential,” he says. “So it’s dynamic, dangerous, and deficient.”
It’s also important to understand how humans fit into the picture, Epstein argues.
“People who view nature as a delicate nurturer tend to view human beings as polluter-parasites. So our activities—we make the earth dirty and we quickly squander its very limited resources.”
This is a common perspective, but Epstein doesn’t buy it.
“The other view—the view that I hold—is no, human beings are not polluter-parasites. We are perfecter-producers. We take a naturally dangerous and deficient planet and we make it far safer and more abundant.”
There’s no question that humans can have a negative impact on the environment and that unchecked exploitation is wrongheaded. But implying—as the new Avatar movie does—that almost all environmental impact is wrong simply goes too far.
When we think about real-world environmental issues, we need to avoid one-sided thinking. The costs need to be weighed against the benefits. Industrialization shouldn’t automatically be seen as bad, and making money shouldn’t be seen as pure greed.
Human progress depends on our ability to master our environment, or at least tame it.