But as he arrived for the second day of the AI safety summit at Bletchley Park—the former home of the Enigma codebreakers in World War Two—he said it was important not to be “alarmist.”
The agreement, which was signed by the United States and China but not Russia, said, “We encourage all relevant actors to provide context-appropriate transparency and accountability on their plans to measure, monitor and mitigate potentially harmful capabilities and the associated effects that may emerge, in particular, to prevent misuse and issues of control, and the amplification of other risks.”
The U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris is attending the summit on Thursday, along with European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen while Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is attending the event virtually.
Elon Musk, who is also attending the summit, praised Mr. Sunak for holding the event and said, “I think AI is one of the biggest threats.”
Mr. Musk told the PA news agency: “We have for the first time the situation where we have something that is going to be far smarter than the smartest human. We’re not stronger or faster than other creatures, but we are more intelligent, and here we are for the first time, really in human history, with something that is going to be far more intelligent than us.”
He said: “It’s not clear to me if we can control such a thing, but I think we can aspire to guide it in a direction that’s beneficial to humanity. But I do think it’s one of the existential risks that we face and ... the summit is timely, and I applaud the prime minister for holding it.”
Mr. Cohen replied, “There is a particular risk ... which is that it could kill everyone.”
On Thursday, Britain’s Technology Secretary Michelle Donelan was asked about a Terminator-style scenario in an interview and said, “That is a risk that is much more hypothetical in nature, that naturally is the one that I am most concerned about because it is the one that would result in the gravest ramifications.”
She was asked about AI being able to overpower humans and told Times Radio, “Well, that is one potential area where it could lead but there are several stages before that.”
But while the British government is focusing on the long-term existential threat, the U.S. government appears keener to focus on more short-term threats from AI, such as disinformation on social media caused by manipulated imagery and voices.