People frequently working with artificial intelligence (AI) can be lonely, which can lead to insomnia and increased after-work drinking, a new study found.
Researchers noted that these findings establish correlations and don’t prove that working with AI systems causes loneliness or other responses. The study, conducted across different cultures in the United States, Taiwan, Indonesia, and Malaysia, consisted of four experiments. The findings were consistent across cultures.
“The rapid advancement in AI systems is sparking a new industrial revolution that is reshaping the workplace with many benefits but also some uncharted dangers, including potentially damaging mental and physical impacts for employees,” said lead researcher Pok Man Tang, an assistant professor of management at the University of Georgia.
“Humans are social animals, and isolating work with AI systems may have damaging spillover effects into employees’ personal lives.”
However, working with AI systems may have some positive aspects. The researchers found that employees who frequently used AI systems were more likely to offer help to their colleagues, but this response may be triggered by their loneliness and the need for social interaction.
The researchers also found that participants with high levels of attachment anxiety, which is the tendency to feel insecure and worried about social connections, reported that working with AI systems made them more likely to help others. They also suffered from loneliness and insomnia.
In one experiment, 166 engineers at a Taiwanese biomedical company working with AI systems were asked about their feelings of loneliness, attachment anxiety, and sense of belonging over three weeks. Coworkers rated each individual on their helpful behaviors, while family members of the focus subject reported on the workers’ insomnia and after-work alcohol consumption. The results showed that employees who interacted more frequently with AI systems were more likely to experience loneliness, insomnia, and increased after-work alcohol consumption. However, they also showed helping behaviors toward their coworkers.
In another experiment with 126 real estate consultants in an Indonesian property management company, half were told not to use AI systems for three consecutive days, while the others were encouraged to work with AI systems as much as possible. The findings for people who worked with AI were similar to the findings of the previous experiment, except there was no association between the frequency of AI use and after-work alcohol consumption.
There were similar findings from an online experiment with 214 full-time workers in the United States and another 294 employees at a Malaysian tech company.
Mr. Tang suggested that developers of AI technology consider equipping AI systems with social features, such as a human voice, to emulate human-like interactions. Employers can also limit the frequency of work with AI systems and offer opportunities for employees to socialize.
“Mindfulness programs and other positive interventions also might help relieve loneliness,” Mr. Tang said. “AI will keep expanding, so we need to act now to lessen the potentially damaging effects for people who work with these systems.”
According to a recent report from the U.S. surgeon general titled “Our Epidemic of Loneliness and Isolation,” loneliness is more than just a bad feeling; it harms individual and societal health. It’s associated with a greater risk of cardiovascular disease, dementia, stroke, depression, infection, anxiety, and premature death.
According to the report, the effect on mortality of being socially disconnected is similar to that of smoking up to 15 cigarettes per day and is even greater than those of obesity and physical inactivity.
Large population studies have documented that among initially healthy people tracked over time, those who are more socially connected live longer, and those who experience social deficits, including isolation, loneliness, and poor-quality relationships, are more likely to die earlier, regardless of the cause of death, according to the report.