With new variants of the COVID-19 virus on the rise and government officials pushing the return of public health mandates, Americans will be tested on whether they have learned anything about propaganda over the past three years, according to Dr. Robert Malone.
“We’ve heard all of this about how lethal this coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, is, and how we’re at such great risk for hospitalization or death associated with it. Most of that has turned out to be false,” the virologist said during a recent interview for EpochTV’s “American Thought Leaders: NOW.”
On the advisory panel are vaccine makers such as Moderna, Novavax, and Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech. They have produced booster shots aimed at the highly transmissible XBB.1.5 variant, which Dr. Malone said had already mutated to the point where those vaccines have been rendered useless.
“If they’re partially effective in eliciting an immune response that’s not adequate to stop the virus from replicating and spreading, what it will do is select virus mutants that are able to evade the immune selection pressure elicited by the vaccines and also by natural infection,” said Dr. Malone, who helped create the messenger RNA technology used in some of the vaccines.
“And the key question is, who cares?” he continued. “There are lots of different variants. If we raised red flags about every single variant that we detected, we would be basically crying wolf 24/7, because this evolution is a constant ongoing process.”
When it comes to the lethality of Pirola and Eris, Dr. Malone said the latest data complied by the CDC only indicates a daily mortality “associated with,” rather than “caused by,” the new COVID strains.
“If they put a swab up your nose and came up with a positive signal by whatever test, that’s COVID associated,” he said, adding that COVID-associated deaths per day in the United States are running at about 40.
By comparison, the daily deaths associated with synthetic opioids like fentanyl are at about 200.
“Just like with the parent Omicron, what we see in general with both Pirola and Eris is that these viruses may be more infectious—certainly Eris is more infectious, because it’s out-competing Kraken and the others—but not particularly pathogenic,” the doctor added. “That’s the trajectory of viruses. Typically, when they enter a human body population, they evolve to become more infectious and less pathogenic.”
The narrative that was extensively pushed onto the American public over the past three years, however, was based on the premises that the COVID pathogen was lethal and the vaccines were safe and effective. Dr. Malone said these were false beliefs.
“All this information about COVID has been framed in that context, and framed in the logic that anything which would cause vaccine hesitancy should be suppressed and censored,” he explained.
“We’re about to have a social experiment,” the doctor continued. “Has the American public learned over the last three years about propaganda, information manipulation, the lack of benefits associated with these measures, and the impact these measures have had on their children, their parents, their finances, and on their jobs? Are they going to be willing to comply in general? Are they going to stand up and just say, ‘No?’”