Australian universities, which have established joint ventures (JVs) with Chinese counterparts, have raised concerns after it was revealed some have concerning deep links to the defense sector, including submarine and cyberwarfare projects.
Several of Australia’s top tertiary institutions are involved in 150 joint ventures between universities in China and Australia, according to the latest estimates.
“These joint ventures integrate Australia’s and China’s university systems in specific subject areas asymmetrically on Beijing’s terms. On the Australian side, they present questions about education policy, law, and administration—and reconciling a liberal education system with one in which education is defined as serving goals of the party-state.”
“There are only 12 Confucius Institutes, but there are more than 150 education JVs between Australian and Chinese universities,” he said.
OUC has strong defense and security links with Chinese authorities, according to the Australian Strategic Policy Institute (ASPI), a Canberra, Australia-based defense and strategic policy think tank.
Monash University partnered with Southeast University (SEU) in Suzhou, China, to set up a JV offering research including advanced materials and manufacturing and advanced computing.
“SEU is a leading Chinese university that engages in high levels of defence research. ... The university has secret security credentials, enabling it to participate in secret defence projects. ... The university has also been linked to cyberespionage,” the think tank stated.
“SEU has also built relationships with state-owned defence conglomerates. In 2017, the university signed a strategic cooperation agreement with missile-manufacturer China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation.”
“Shandong University (SDU) is designated very high risk for its high number of defence laboratories and links to China’s nuclear weapons program,” the ASPI university tracker stated.
The university hosts three Chinese defense laboratories, one of which has been accused of conducting cyberattacks for the CCP’s People’s Liberation Army.