A super PAC supporting Miami Mayor Francis Suarez’s bid for the Republican presidential nomination has launched an artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot to answer queries about him, marking yet another instance of the use of generative AI in 2024 presidential campaigns.
“Hi, I’m AI Francis Suarez,” the bot says to introduce itself, its mouth moving in a way that attempts to imitate human speech.
“You’ve probably heard that my namesake, conservative Miami Mayor Francis Suarez, is running for president. I’m here to answer questions you may have about Mayor Suarez’s proven agenda for economic prosperity, cutting spending and supporting our police. So, how can I help?”
When asked whether the PAC or campaign is concerned about the potential corruptibility of AI or of alienating those more traditional GOP voters with the use of the technology, the PAC responded, saying the bot helps bring the mayor’s message to more people.
“We created AI Francis Suarez to help communicate the Mayor’s message of bringing the Miami Model to the rest of the country,” SOS America PAC Spokesman Miami Chapin Fay told The Epoch Times. “AI Francis Suarez is just one tool we are deploying to communicate with Republican primary voters, along with plenty of other traditional and cutting-edge tactics.”
The chatbot does not appear to directly address a user’s queries; rather, it directs them to a relevant video on Mr. Suarez’s platform.
When questioned about Mr. Suarez’s immigration plan, for instance, the AI begins to play a 55-second video titled “Mayor Suarez’s Miami Model” that discusses a variety of topics, such as “economic prosperity in Miami,” unemployment rates, job creation, homicide rates, and homelessness.
When asked whether Mr. Suarez would endorse Trump as the Republican nominee, the automaton displays a computer-generated caricature of “AI Ron DeSantis.” The bot asserts that Mr. Suarez is concerned with “saving America’s economy and supporting our police officers,” while DeSantis believes “the single greatest threat to American families today is Mickey Mouse - run for your lives!”
Some queries stymie the AI, resulting in a screen that reads, “Sorry, I did not understand...”
While artificial intelligence has been used in political campaigns in the past, AI tools have vastly improved over the past few years, making it quicker, cheaper, and simpler to generate images, videos, and text blocks from inception.
“America needs conservative Mayor Francis Suarez for President,” said SOS America PAC spokesperson Chapin Fay. “As our nation faces anti-police and pro-crime Democrat leadership in cities across the nation like Baltimore, Portland and New York City, the achievements of first-generation American Mayor Suarez underscore the need for immediate nationwide adoption of his approach.
“Because of Mayor Suarez’s tough-on-crime and back-the-blue approach, Miami currently has its lowest homicide rate since the 1950’s and the lowest homelessness rate since 2013.”
“Under his leadership, the Miami economy is thriving. Miami boasts the nation’s lowest unemployment rate at 1.4%, and Mayor Suarez' fiscal policies have achieved the city’s lowest tax rate since the 1960’s, the creation of 8,000 new jobs and an additional $1 billion in wages to Miami’s economy,” Fey went on.
“Mayor Francis Suarez’s Miami Model is working, plain and simple. Now is the time for the rest of the country to adopt his successful approach. America needs conservative Mayor Francis Suarez for President.”
Since assuming office as Miami’s Mayor in 2017, he has spearheaded initiatives that attracted businesses and fostered job creation, along with lowering crime to its lowest rate in decades.