A new report is drawing attention to the shortage of truck drivers in Canada and its repercussions on the supply chain, as well as the increasing cost of goods.
The report indicated the shortage of drivers was causing ripple effects throughout the food supply chain.
“The lack of drivers leads to shipment delays, out of stocks on retail shelves, and, in turn, increased prices for consumer products due to the lower level of supply available for purchase,” it said.
“Although there was a trucker shortage prior to COVID-19, the pandemic made the shortage more apparent to the wider public.”
According to the report, there are about 20,000 vacant driver positions across the country. More than 34,000 drivers are also expected to leave the industry in 2023.
Recruitment problems cited by the PwC report include poor public perception of the truck driving industry, and the lack of effort made to attract younger workers to the vocation.
“The transportation industry must join to display the great opportunities and benefits that can come from pursuing a successful, professional career as a truck driver,” the report said.
To solve the problem, the report’s authors call for an integrated approach that includes the government, schools, and the industry.
“A young and diverse workforce could be attracted to truck driving by clearly advertising the supporting technological components, showcasing technological innovations (such as the Internet of Things, Drive Assist, Artificial Intelligence, and cloud-based platforms),” the report said.
It also suggested using social media to share success stories from young drivers, female truck drivers, and other new target audiences.
The report suggests that enhancing the industry’s image among younger generations could be one of the measures to improve the appeal of the occupation.
According to the report, the perception of truck driving is that it lags behind in technological advancement compared to other industries and offers an unfavourable work-life balance.
“To alter this perception, associations within the trucking industry should create campaigns, social media postings, and school collaborations with the aim to showcase the trucking industry’s critical importance and bring awareness of its evolution towards technological innovation and environmental consciousness,” the authors wrote.
The report also said there is more the government can do to reach high school students and encourage them to consider a career in truck driving.
“Having a presence at a school club or career fair allows for students to have a more continuous awareness and education of the trucking industry,” the report said.
PwC said it was crucial for quick action to remedy the truck driver shortage to maintain consumer welfare.