Rampant consumerism could get a shot in the arm as artificial intelligence keeps breaking boundaries, says music expert Peter Tregear.
Tregear, the director of Little Hall at the University of Melbourne, says AI-generated music will likely proliferate even further to permeate people’s lives.
“It will be so much easier and cheaper to underscore visual material that it becomes ubiquitous,” Tregear told The Epoch Times.
“You see people walking around and basically wired in 24/7. They wake up to music, put in their headphones, and have their phone all day. Once they take it out, they’re in a shop which has music in the background,” he added.
“You’re not aware of it. That’s what makes it so manipulative because it ‘disappears,’ it literally becomes an underscore.”
The professor said it could be a trigger for more education around music, much like how concerns around social media use and pornography have spurred similar public awareness campaigns.
“We need to change the curriculum that we teach kids from primary school onwards so that they are ’sonically aware' or empowered,” Tregear said. “Otherwise, we are just accepting it and are at its mercy.”
His ideas were echoed by Associate Prof. Goetz Richter, violinist and chair of strings at the Sydney Conservatorium of Music, who said AI could accelerate the commercialisation of music.
“Imagine a world in which literature only exists for a majority of people who can’t read,” he said.
“AI is showing us the limitations of our ways of objectifying the world.”
Key questions posed by the chatbot include what impact AI will have on employment, whether the information provided by AI Chatbots can be trusted, and broader, existential questions like whether AI will surpass or supersede humans (or achieve “singularity”).
A similar debate occurred in 1996 when scientists successfully cloned a female sheep, Dolly, leading to questions on whether the cloning of humans was next.
“AI is perhaps more dangerous than, say, mismanaged aircraft design, or production maintenance, or bad car production, in the sense that it is, it has the potential—however small one may regard that probability, but it is nontrivial—it has the potential of civilizational destruction,” he told Tucker Carlson.