The Biden administration has released a plan for federal investments in artificial intelligence (AI) that outlines several strategies the government needs to focus on; one of the objectives is to advance “equity” and counter “inequity” in society.
Focus will also be on developing shared public datasets for AI development, evaluating AI systems through benchmarks, better understanding the needs of the national AI R&D workforce, expanding public-private partnerships to accelerate AI advancements, and establishing a coordinated and principled approach to international collaboration in AI research.
“This plan defines the major research challenges in AI to coordinate and focus federal R&D investments. It will ensure continued U.S. leadership in the development and use of trustworthy AI systems, prepare the current and future U.S. workforce for the integration of AI systems across all sectors, and coordinate ongoing AI activities across all federal agencies,” said the White House.
One of the plan objectives is to ensure that AI systems “promote equity.” The National AI R&D Strategic Plan insists that AI capabilities need to “advance equity rather than exacerbating inequity.”
“For example, if only wealthy hospitals can take advantage of AI systems, the benefits of these technologies will not be equitably distributed. Research to make beneficial AI accessible in historically underrepresented communities will help ensure that those in greatest need of these capabilities can use them,” the plan states.
The OSTP plan envisions the creation of a “national technical AI workforce.” It says that “illuminating the demographic disparities and gaps” in the AI workforce will allow HR professionals and policymakers to address these perceived disparities and “increase equity and diversity.”
Derived from Marxist teachings, equity is different from the concept of equality. In equality, everyone in a society is treated on an equal footing, and given the same level of treatment regardless of differences in race, religion, and other factors.
With regard to public input, OSTP is asking people questions related to “advancing equity and strengthening civil rights.”
“What are the opportunities for AI to enhance equity and how can these be fostered?” one question asks.
Another question seeks input on additional considerations needed “to assure that AI mitigates algorithmic discrimination, advances equal opportunity, and promotes positive outcomes for all,” especially when used in health and human services, in hiring and employment practices, and in transportation.
OSTP is also seeking public opinion about working with low and middle-income countries to make sure that AI’s potential harms do not “disproportionately fall” on global populations who have been “historically underserved.”
“Whether an AI model exhibits algorithmic bias or is judged to be fair and trustworthy is critical as local school leaders make adoption decisions about using AI to achieve their equity goals,” the report states.
“Biden is not a moderate. This is a legal sprint to inject as much radical ideology as broadly and as deeply as possible in our government. This cannot be allowed. If Republicans take office, they must fully root out all of this ideological and social cancer,” evolutionary biologist Colin Wright, a founding editor of pro-free speech publication Reality’s Last Stand, said in a Feb. 21 Twitter post.
Multiple federal agencies are already using AI for various tasks. The U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) is using artificial intelligence to collect information from social media activity. The AI tool allows CBP to screen travelers, including American citizens, people who are seeking asylum, and refugees.