Bletchley Park, you’ve come a long way, baby.
Now, artificial intelligence is turning the tables on the outdated human variety. The United States and our closest allies, including other G7 and NATO members, are supposedly developing the world’s best AI models and controlling them so they never, ever, ever fall into the wrong hands or threaten human freedoms and democratic processes.
Suuure.
As usual with any high technology, dictators and terrorists lurk in the wings as political naifs in Silicon Valley fail to take necessary security measures, or worse, dream about sharing their new killer technology through “open source” development, so any criminal, hacker, terrorist, tin-pot dictator, or wannabe hegemonic totalitarian has access.
Major companies or their creators—including Meta (which is desperate for business in China), Elon Musk (who has plenty of business in China), and AI startups Hugging Face, Mistral, and Stability AI—all support an open-source approach to AI development. That suits the Chinese just fine, as they can piggyback on U.S. research and keep up without much expenditure on their part.
What the friendly face of consumer-facing AI hides is that it is the next big dangerous technology—akin to the nuclear revolution or worse—in military tech. Whichever country masters it first will have a huge military advantage over its competitors, as, for example, its drones can then learn how to defeat the enemy literally on the fly.
A representative from China, who should not have been invited (how many massacres and wars will it take for idealistic democracies to learn that the CCP is an adversary, not a “competitor”), attended the summit in Bletchley, smiled for the cameras, and surprised others in attendance by saying the right words about “freedom and democracy.” What astonishing hypocrisy.
Why would democratic leaders be so foolish, after handing China and other illiberal regimes the keys to the technological kingdom since the 1970s to outcompete us through industrial mass production, to do so again with the information revolution of AI? That anyone would even talk about sharing AI technology with a totalitarian and genocidal dictatorship bent on the destruction of America as we know it, should inspire a voter revolt to throw the bums out, be they corporate or political, so that we can get someone reasonable in charge.
Some companies—namely Google and Microsoft’s OpenAI—maintain control of their AI algorithms through “closed source” development. This is risky, though, as other companies could develop more quickly and cheaply with their open-source approach. In other words, no matter what we do, we could be doomed to a future where the bad guys have access to AI.