The report’s release comes on the heels of over two decades of threats from the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) regarding the potential use of biotechnology as a form of “unrestricted warfare” against Western nations. It addresses the aftermath of the devastating COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in millions of fatalities globally.
Just a few weeks prior to the report’s Aug. 17 release, the Defense Department announced it would invest an additional $300 million per year over the next five years to guard against known and emerging biological threats. That investment comes on top of approximately $1.4 billion appropriated in 2022 for chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear defenses, according to an article in National Defense magazine.
It notes that the National Defense Strategy, released in 2022, “provides a vision for focusing the DoD on our pacing challenge”—namely, a competitor making significant progress toward challenging U.S. defense—“even as we manage the other threats of a rapidly changing world.”
The Biodefense Posture Review specified four goals that the Defense Department must prioritize before 2035 to defend against biological threats:
1. Defend the homeland, paced to the growing multi-domain threat posed by the People’s Republic of China (PRC);
2. Deter strategic attacks against the United States and its allies and partners;
3. Deter aggression, while being prepared to prevail in conflict when necessary—prioritizing the PRC challenge in the Indo-Pacific region, then the Russia challenge in Europe;
4. Build a resilient Joint Force and defense ecosystem.
In the 1990s, the Chinese military introduced the concept of unrestricted warfare, a form of total war that transcends military boundaries and is ready to employ all available technologies.
Biological warfare, in essence, embodies all the features of unrestricted warfare, in which the first rule is that “there are no rules, with nothing forbidden.”
More than a decade after the book’s publication, a 2010 book titled “War for Biological Dominance” stressed the impact of biology on future warfare. The book was authored by Guo Jiwei, a professor and chief physician at the PLA’s Third Military Medical University, and author of a 2006 article in the PLA Journal of Military Medicine entitled “The Command of Biotechnology and Merciful Conquest in Military Opposition.”
China’s state-run media continued to fervently advocate unrestricted warfare over the next decade.
On Jan. 23, 2014, China National Defense News published an article titled “Genetic Warfare Will Fundamentally Transform Human Warfare.”
“Genetic weapons can be used in a variety of ways,” the article said. “Through humans, aircraft, missiles, or artillery, one can put genetically engineered bacteria, bacterial insects, and microorganisms with disease-causing genes into the major rivers, cities, or major transportation arteries of other countries, so that the microorganisms such as viruses can spread and multiply naturally, thus causing people and animals to suffer from an untreatable disease in a short period of time.”
For the author of this article, the mass killing or injuring of innocent civilians was not an apparent matter of concern.
“One side may use genetic weapons before the war, causing the destruction of the other party’s personnel and living environment, leading to the destruction of a nation, as the whole nation loses its combat effectiveness and is conquered without bloodshed ... The future battlefield will become an invisible battlefield.”
The following year, the authors of an article published online on China Military—the English language news website of the PLA— explained that by taking advantage of the genetic differences between various races, genetic weapons can kill or incapacitate a targeted group of people, while sparing the unspecified group of people from harm.
“Studies have shown that 99.7 percent to 99.9 percent of human DNA is the same, and the small differences are the key to distinguishing various races. Therefore, each nation and race has a unique genetic profile, based on which, theoretically, genetic weapons can be developed to selectively target specific racial genes, thereby killing or injuring a specific race,” the article said.
The article pointed out the practical aspect of “using $50 million to build a genetic weapons arsenal” that “will have far more lethality than a nuclear weapons arsenal costing $100 billion to build.”
Notably, the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV), a possible origin of the novel coronavirus, is a typical military-civilian fusion research institute.
“What I can say for sure is this: we know that they were engaged in efforts that were connected to the People’s Liberation Army inside of that laboratory, so military activity being performed alongside what they claimed was just good old civilian research,” he said.
A look back at the very beginnings of the pandemic is significant. On Jan. 25, 2020, less than two days after Wuhan was locked down, a PLA biological warfare expert, Major Gen. Chen Wei, led a team to Wuhan to take charge of the institute. Officially, Gen. Chen was dispatched to Wuhan to create a vaccine to counter the COVID-19 virus, which her team did—with remarkable speed.
However, experts say that Gen. Chen’s presence at the Wuhan Institute confirms the link between the Wuhan lab and the Chinese military.