Moderators: Fox News host Dana Perino, Fox Business Network host Stuart Varney Univision anchor Ilia Calderón.
Mr. Varney: Alongside him is Vivek Ramaswamy and former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley.
Ms. Calderón: Next, is South Carolina Sen. Tim Scott and former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie.
Ms. Perino: On the wings tonight, former Vice President Mike Pence and North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum.
Mr. Varney: We have questions on a wide variety of issues important to primary voters. The candates get one minute to answer and 30 seconds to respond if singled out. When their time runs out, we’ll all hear this [chiming bell]. We have a lot of ground to cover, so please keep it civilized.
Ms. Perino: Let’s get going. We are in this spacious, sunny place tonight. Designed to reflect the very nature and character of Ronald Reagan. It’s a place that makes you proud to be an American. Yet today our nation is drowning in division and incivility.
Ms. Calderón: Voters say they dread the 2024 election and find politics exhausting, two in three Americans think the country is on the wrong track. And three in four say the economy is not in good shape.
Mr. Varney: Prices are up 18% Since 2020, more than half of the US population has little access to childcare. 85% of Americans say that personal finances are a source of stress.
Ms. Perino: Americans want to believe a leader who says you can follow me. I’ve got you don’t worry. President Biden is trying to do that with “Bidenomics.”
Mr. Varney: And yesterday he joined the picket lines where auto workers are demanding more wages and job security, such as Scott, you recently reacted by praising Ronald Reagan for firing air traffic controllers in the 1980s it’s saying you strike you’re fired. Would you fire 1000s of striking auto workers today, Senator?
Ms. Perino: I can promise you that we are going to have a lot of questions on the border and immigration but in the meantime, we do want to talk about the economy and jobs and especially want to talk about this strike for just a moment more Mr. Ramaswamy. You’ve said you really empathize with the strikers. You’re standing next to Senator Scott and do you agree with what he said or do you think he’s wrong?
Unlock American energy drill frack burn coal, embrace nuclear energy, put people back to work by no longer paying them more money to stay at home, stabilize the US dollar itself and rescind a majority of unconstitutional federal regulations that are hampering our economy. That is how we unleash American exceptionalism. And that’s not a Democratic vision or Republican vision. That is an American vision that we embrace economic growth, and capitalism is still the best system known to man to lift us up from poverty and we should not apologize for it. That’s what it means to be an American.
I was governor of the state of Indiana. We brought 12,000 factories back to America during our administration. I know something about manufacturing And I gotta tell you a while while the union bosses are talking about class warfare and talking about disparity in wages, I have to tell you, I really believe what’s driving that Biden up to fail. Wages are not keeping up with inflation auto workers and all American workers and families are struggling in this economy. and Joe Biden’s Green New Deal agenda is good for Beijing and bad for Detroit, we got to repeal the green New Deal get rid of the mandates and subsidies that are driving American gasoline automotive manufacturing into the graveyard.
Let’s focus on on going after Middle America and cutting taxes for middle America and collapsing those brackets. Let’s get rid of unfair distortions like the state and local tax that they give to wealthy people in blue states and not in paid by red states. And let’s make sure we make the small business taxes permanent, they only made those temporary they made the corporate taxes permanent. Let’s focus on what it takes to get more cash in the pockets of workers. that’s when we'll be able to deal with strikes like this not sitting on a picket line like Joe Biden
And when you decide that we’re going to take all of your taxpayer monies take a billion dollars subsidize a certain type of vehicle and the batteries come from China, China controls 85% of the rare earth minerals, they’re called Rare Earth because they’re measured in parts per million. China is moving 100,000 pounds Earth in Indonesia in Africa; they’re literally destroying the planet, so that we can make it make a battery that’s in a car subsidized here. That’s why they’re striking because they need two thirds less workers to build an electric car. This strike is at Joe Biden’s feet.
Mr. Christie: Everybody who’s in Washington DC, they could sit down there to do the job and they’ve been failing at doing the job for a very long time. And let’s be honest about this with the voters. You know, during the Trump administration, they added $7 trillion $7 trillion in national debt.
And now the Biden administration has put another 5 trillion on and counting. They have failed and they’re in the spot they’re in now because none of them are willing to tell the truth. None of them are willing to take on the difficult issues. They just want to keep kicking the can down the road. And the inflation that Nikki spoke about is absolutely right. And it’s caused by government spending. And that’s why people all across this country are suffering tonight.
And yet we don’t get any answers because Joe Biden hides in his basement and won’t answer as to why he’s raising the debt the way he’s done. And Donald Trump, he hides behind the walls of his golf clubs and won’t show up here to answer questions like all the rest of us are up here to answer he puts 7 trillion on the debt. he should be in this room to answer those questions for the people you talk about who are suffering, and if the government and if the government closes and if the government gets the blame it is to the blame of everyone.
Ms. Calderón: Can we please respect the time. Gov. DeSantis, you haven’t spoken, please.
Mr. DeSantis: the people in Washington are shutting down the American dream with their reckless behavior. They borrow, they printed they spent and now you’re paying more for everything. They are the reason for that they have shut down our national sovereignty by allowing our border to be wide open, so please spare me the crocodile tears for these people they need to change what’s going on in Where’s Joe Biden. He’s completely missing an action from leadership, and you know who else is missing an action. Donald Trump is missing in action he should be on this stage tonight.
He owes it to you to defend his record where they added 7.8 trillion to the debt that set the stage for the inflation that we have. now I can tell you this as governor of Florida, We cut taxes, we ran surpluses, we’ve paid down over 25% of our state debt. and I vetoed wasteful spending when it came to my desk and as your President when they send me a bloating spending bill that’s going to cause your prices to go up. I’m going to take out this veto pen and I’m going to send it right back to them.
Ms. Perino: I just want to address a question that is on the minds of a lot of moms and dads and Americans and I know that you’ve been thinking about it because childcare costs they are up there topping $10,000 per month. Some families are spending up to half of their income on childcare, and they’re having to decide is it worth it for me to work? Or does it not make sense for me financially, in three days, the billions of dollars in pandemic-era funding is going to end and 70,000 daycares could close So you had an effort to broaden eligibility for childcare assistance that fell apart last year.
And for the moms and dads out there who are worried. What can you tell them if you weren’t able to get it through the Congress, how could you do it as president?
(Crosstalk)
Mr. Burgum: Nobody answered the question. In North Dakota we serve that we knew that the cliff was coming we knew that there was going to be millions of people without it and so guess what we planned okay when we we pet we pass legislation …
Ms. Calderón: in 1984 President Ronald Reagan said the following “The idea of amnesty for those who have put down roots and who’ve lived here even though, sometime back. Even thought they may have entered illegally.”
Mr. Christie: The problem is that says no one has done anything since we first had this discussion. 13 years ago, we’re not in a position to be able to do any of that anymore. What we have to do now is first treat this like the law enforcement problem it is our laws are being broken every day at the southern border every day. And Joe Biden and his crew is doing nothing about enforcing that law. They are letting it go. and by the way, they announced during the presidential race, that we’re going to let it go. And we need to have a guy president who acts like I did as governor, enforce the law.
first and foremost. And that means what I'll do on day one is sign an executive order to send the National Guard to partner with Customs and Border Patrol to make sure that we stopped the flow of fentanyl over the border, but also to make sure that we send a much different message. We want you here in this country to fill the 6 million vacant jobs we have but only if you come here to follow the law. and only if you come here legally. If you come here illegally, we will apprehend you and we will send you back across the border from which you came.
Ms. Perino: Gov. Haley; Most illegal immigrants are coming from the country south of the border. You’ve seen the Fox News drone. It’s captured this steady stream of people coming into the country on a daily basis. In fact, I believe we have a live picture of it tonight. That is happening right now live. In the last decade the US has spent nearly $55 billion dollars to address the root causes of migration, but crime, poverty and corruption they persist and the number of migrants is only growing. Are we wasting our money?
Ms. Haley: Well, what happens is when Joe Biden waved the green flag, It told everybody to come and now we’ve seen 6 million people cross the border we’ve had more fentanyl, that have killed Americans and the Iraq Vietnam or Afghanistan wars combined, we need to make sure that we are a country of laws, the second we stopped being a country of laws we give up everything this country was founded on.
Ms. Perino: what about the aid that federal taxpayers are paying to deal with the root causes? it’s not working.
Mr. Varney: Gov. DeSantis, We have a question for you. Governor DeSantis China invested a $12 billion in Latin America. just last year, they signed a strategic partnerships with seven countries, including Mexico, and China’s military ties to the region now include arms sales and training exercises. Are you comfortable with China,  deepening ties with our southern neighbors?
Mr. DeSantis: Of course not. And the reason why we’re in this mess is because elites in DC, for far too long, have chosen surrender over strength when it comes to the CCP some people in our country got rich, our industrial base got hollowed out and they have been able to build the second most powerful military in the entire world.
We need a totally new approach to China. we are going to have real hard power in the Indo Pacific like Reagan to deter their ambitions. we’re going to have economic independence from China, or we’re decoupling our economy, and we are going to go after the cultural power, they have in this country.
As governor of Florida. I banned the CCP from buying land in our state. We should do that all across these United States. we shouldn’t have them in our universities. We shouldn’t have Confucius Institutes. So, what you see a country in decline, our powers in decline, China’s going to surpass us this decade, and if they do that, that’s gonna affect every single American household
and as the father of two sons, it is hard for me to look them in the eye and say you have to follow the law. When our own government fails to follow its own laws. That’s how we really go the distance and solve this problem, and restore the rule of law in the United States of America, because that is part of what it even means to be an American
Mr. DeSantis: Let’s focus on holding Joe Biden accountable.
Mr. Ramaswamy: I agree with Ron DeSantis on China, when every other CEO expanded into the Chinese market. You know what I did with my first company? We opened a subsidiary in China, but you know what I did that was different than every other company. We got the hell out of there. And when I started my own company you ran strive right. years ago, right when I started my next company struggling to compete against excuse me to compete against I made it that we would never do business in China.
(Ms. Haley and Ms. Scott both attempted to speak)
Ms. Calderón: I think you’ve had more than time to explain your position.
Ms. Calderón: Vice President Pence, in 2017, the Trump pence administration cancelled DACA which put the legal status of 600,000 dreamers in the hands of the courts. Dreamers work and they pay taxes as precedent in the Supreme Court and stuck up. Would you work with Congress to reach a permanent solution for dreamers?
Ms. Calderón: Vice President, will you negotiate with Congress to give a solution to the problem that dreamers have right now, they are gonna limbo.
Mr. Pence: I served in Congress for 12 years, although it seemed longer. But you know, something I’ve done different than everybody on this stage is I’ve actually I’ve actually secured reform in Congress. you know, you know, Ron, you talk really good game about cutting spending, but you’ve increased spending and Florida by 30%. When I was a member of Congress in 2006, right after Hurricane Katrina Danna you remember it. We stood our ground.
Mr. DeSantis: I got mentioned.
(Break)
Ms. Perino: And welcome back to the Reagan Library for the second Republican presidential debate. I do want to just remind everyone, there’s a one minute for questions 30 seconds for a follow up and the more you mentioned each other that means if your questions you’re gonna get Okay, so we want to talk about crime. This has been a horrendous problem in our country with Fox News and others have been covering it.
Governor Christie crime in major cities is striking fear into the hearts of Americans, just last night looters took over the streets of Philadelphia. You said in the last debate that you would use US attorneys to prosecute crimes, Local prosecutors won’t, but they are stretched as well and they could not handle all of the lawlessness the shoplifting, all the car jackings the armed robberies, they’re all surging. progressive prosecutors were elected by their constituents and they can’t be fired by a president. So what would you do to end the revolving door of criminality.
Mr. Christie: I’m the only one on this stage who has done it for seven years I ran the fifth largest office in this country, the US Attorney’s Office in New Jersey, and we set records for the number of prosecutions that we brought that still have not been broken. And the reason was that we went after the crime that was affecting people’s lives and as President, I will appoint an attorney general and instruct that Attorney General, that you are to put all the resources that are necessary to bring our cities back under control.
Mr. DeSantis: Well, the crime in the cities is one of the strongest signs of the decaying of America. We can’t be successful as a country if people aren’t even safe to live in places like Los Angeles. and San Francisco just being in Southern California over the last couple of days. my wife and I have met three people who have been mugged on the street and that would have never happened 10 or 20 years ago in Florida, We back the blue we support the men and women of law enforcement. they are keeping us safe. We have a 50 year low. In the crime rate. And yes, when I had to progressive prosecutors that weren’t following the law in Florida. I removed him from their posts and the people of Florida are safer as a result of it.
But I want to go back to China because I don’t think we spend enough time on that. Right now. we have to look at what government is doing to hurt us against China to you have a company us antibiotics that produces amoxicillin, the number one antibiotic that we need. And right now there’s a company in Bristol, Tennessee, that produces that yet, our federal government only gets it from China
Ms. Calderón: Thank you Stuart we’re gonna stay on the topic of crime because it affects all of us, Governor Burgum, for the first time ever, the Univision poll found that mass shootings, and gun safety are one of the most important issue for Latino voters. mental health concerns are not unique to the United States. but gun violence is what is your specific plan to curb gun violence?
Mr. Burgum: Well, we know it’s understand this I think that the liberal left is seems to be just completely bent on prosecuting law abiding citizens that are gun owners because every solution they have to this is take away the Second Amendment rights of Americans that somehow that’s gonna solve the problem but all these cities was that we’re talking about they showed the videos of tonight they have some of the strictest gun laws in the country. So we know that that’s not what’s working.
But we have to do is get back to the core issues about the family. We have to get back to behavioral health and mental health. We’ve got to get back to actually enforcing the laws these people talked about. And like we’ve done in North Dakota, where we’re that we’ve got the goal and we’re on the track being the most military friendly state and nation. We’ve got the most military and the most support of what we’re doing in terms of law enforcement because the the morale is down because we’ve been defunding the police because they’ve been attacked in the press. And police have become the bad guys when they’re the one they there’s all these jobs available in America, why would you be a policeman if people don’t respect them?
Ms. Calderón: Mr. Ramaswamy, according to Customs and Border Protection, about 90 percent according to Customs and Border Protection, about 90% of fentanyl is ceased at official border crossings. and 57% of the smugglers are US citizens. How would you stop fentanyl brought into the country, mostly by US citizens through ports of entry.
Mr. Ramaswamy: There’s two sides to this that we have to be very honest about it. One is we do have to seal that southern border. Building the wall is not enough. They’re building cartel financed tunnels underneath that wall semi trucks can drive through them. We have to use our military to seal the Swiss cheese of a southern border. but we also have to be honest, there’s a demand side problem in this country to a mental health epidemic.
Not with pumping pharmaceuticals, but with faith, faith-based approaches that restore purpose and meaning in the next generation of Americans. many of them are getting it through social media, and this isn’t a Republican point or a Democrat point. But if you’re 16 years old or under you should not be using an addictive social media product, period.
Mr. Pence: First, let me speak to the mass shootings issue and then I'll answer that question is important one day. I’m someone that believes that Justice delayed is justice denied. And as a father of three is the grandfather of three beautiful little girls. I am sick and tired of these mass shootings happening in the United States. of America and if I’m President of the United States, I’m gonna go to the Congress of the United States, and we’re going to pass a federal expedited death penalty for anyone involved in a mass shooting so that they they meet their fate in months, not years.
Ms. Perino: I appreciate that, but does that mean Obamacare is here to stay?
Mr. Pence: Well, thank you for reiterating the question because I'd love to answer it. Look, it’s one of the chart I think it’s one of the choices here you know my former running mate Donald Trump actually has a plan to start to consolidate more power in Washington DC and consolidate more power in the executive branch.
Governor DeSantis, over 26 million Americans don’t have insurance coverage. Governor DeSantis, two and a half million of them are in your state. That’s worse than the national average. Can Americans trust you on this?
Mr. DeSantis: I think this is a symptom of our overall economic decline. everything has gotten more expensive. You see insurance rates are going through the roof, people that are going to get groceries I spoke with a woman in Iowa and she said you know for the first time in my life, I’m having to take things out of my grocery cart when I get to the checkout line because the total goes up so quickly.
We have big pharma, big insurance and big government and we need to tackle that and have more power for the people and the doctor patient relationship.
Mr. Varney: Why is your record in Florida on insurance worse than the national average in your state?
Ms. Haley: First of all, how can we be the best country in the world and have the most expensive health care in the world? We have an issue my mom was in the hospital and when she was in the hospital they tried to bring are a couple of Tylenol, and she said I don’t need it and they said hunting go ahead and take it because you’re paying for it anyway. Why is it that when we got the bill, the insurance company in the hospital negotiated the bill for her without her having anything to do with it.
When I’m President. we will break all of it from the insurance company to the hospitals to the doctor’s offices to the PBM, to the pharmaceutical companies we will make it all transparent because when you do that, you will realize that’s what the problem is.
Second thing is you’ve got to deal with door tort law. the lawyer the doctors won’t give you the 10 tests because they want to it’s because of the 90% chance they'll get sued. And then we need to bring competition back to health care, get rid of certificate of need systems, and make sure that they can compete.
It wasn’t it wasn’t about improving healthcare. it was about picking winners and losers. Every time the federal government’s involved, whether it’s higher education, health care, or now the auto industry, things get more expensive and less good.
Ms. Perino: We are back live at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in the Air Force One pavilion for the second Republican debate and let’s get back to our questions Governor Haley American students, they are in academic trouble, they have lower scores in math and reading. There’s chronic absenteeism that’s at record highs. And this has even been called education, homicide.
You say school choice is the answer. but South Carolina your home state still has not enacted universal school choice, and even the current expansion won’t be fully implemented until 2027. parents can’t wait four years for a fix. So what would you do right now,
Ms. Haley: Well, school choice is the only answer, but I‘ll tell you it’s not out of a lack of trying that we didn’t try and get school choice in South Carolina. what I’ll tell you first of all, is we have to acknowledge the fact that 67% of our eighth graders are not proficient in reading or math over 80% of our eighth graders. aren’t proficient in history or civics, and recently they came out and said our 12 and 13 year olds are scoring at the lowest levels, they’ve been scoring in reading and math in decades.
So the first thing we’ve got to do is we’ve got to make sure we catch our kids back up. we have to make sure they can read. a child that can’t read by third grade is four times less likely to graduate high school, we need to do reading remediation we need complete transparency in the classroom. No parent should ever want to what’s being said, or talk to their child in the classroom.
We need to make sure that we have school choice so that there’s competition we need to move all the programs from the federal government down to the states and let states decide what education looks like in their states. And we need to start building things in America again let’s put vocational classes back in our high schools, and let’s get our kids building the things that we know that we can make.
Mr. Christie: You have to address all students and look in our state Stewart. Frankly, before I was governor, that cap was close to 50%. And what we did was Institute more charter schools and more Renaissance schools and more public school choice in New Jersey with innovative solutions in cities like Camden, we’re now we took what was the worst school districts in America during my time, and we have now increased that by nearly 40% in terms of their proficiency. It can be done when you give people choice.
but let’s tell the truth. everybody have a what this is. this public school system is no longer run by the public. It is run by the teachers unions in this country. Randi Weingarten and her crew are absolutely strangly they’re taking the worst of their members and defending them rather than advocating for our kids. And when you have the president united states, sleeping with a member of the teachers union, there is no chance that you could take the stranglehold away from the teachers union every day. They have an advocate inside the White House every day for the worst of their teachers, not for our students to be the best they can be
Gov. DeSantis: I have a question for you. New black history curriculum says slaves develop skills which in some instances could be applied for their personal benefit. You have said slaves develop skills in spite of slavery not because of it. But many are still hurt for descendants of slaves. This is personal. What is your message to them?
Ms. Calderón: Sen. Scott, you’re apposed to this new standard. What is your message for Governor DeSantis?
Mr. Scott: There is not a redeeming quality in slavery. He and Kamala should have just taken the one sentence out. America has suffered because of slavery. but we’ve overcome that we are the greatest nation on Earth, because we faced our demons in the mirror and made a decision. So often we think that all the issues you talked about crime and education and healthcare. We always think that those issues go back to slavery.
Black families survived slavery. We survived poll taxes and literacy tests. We survived discrimination being woven into the laws of our country. What was hard to survive was Johnson’s Great Society where they decided to put money where they decided to take the blind father out of the household to get a check in the mail and you can now measure that in unemployment and crime and devastation if you want to restore hope. you’ve got to restore the family restored capitalism and put Americans back at work together as one American family.
Our nation continues to go in the right direction is why I can say I have been discriminated against But America is not a racist country. Never ever doubt who we are. We are the greatest country on God’s green earth. and frankly, the city on the hill needs a brand new leader and I’m asking for your vote
And you know what the hypocrisy of this is even New Hampshire failed tax would get passed a piece of legislation here, the very people who say that this increases the risk of suicide are also the ones saying that parents don’t have the right to know about that increased risk of suicide, and I’m sorry, it is not compassionate to affirm a kid’s confusion, that is not compassion that is cruelty.
Ms. Perino: So I want to know, would you try to pass a federal law that says that parents should have that right?
Mr. Ramaswamy: We are going to … States absolutely to follow that law. We stand for parental rights, yes.
Ms. Perino: So I want to ask Gov Burgum just a followup on this, because you in your state, you do not have a law that says parents can’t be notified. But you want to be President. Would you try to pass a federal law to say parents have that right?
Mr. Burgum: I think this is a state’s issue. but I do want to say something because all night long. we’ve been talking about issues about how it’s broken in Washington and I respect all of the people on the stage here for their 100 plus years of public service. Thank you. But the reason why we’re not talking about education or health care or safety being a problem in North Dakota is because we have a business leader, I’ve got more experience as a business leader that I think this whole group combine I know have created more jobs than everybody else on stage 1000s of high paying jobs that have real meaning.
Ms. Perino: But you do understand that this is an issue that many people in America really are concerned about worried about, about parents and notification in schools?
We made every school in North Dakota and innovation school. every school got out from under the red tape and the things that that helped teach the values that we’re trying to get like 4H and FFA.
Education is a state and local function. State of Indiana had one of the very first school choice programs in the country. And when I was governor of state of Indiana, we doubled it and so your question, Dana, let’s let’s be very, very clear, hen the landmark Community Schools in Iowa had a policy where you couldn’t, you had to have a permission slip from your parents to get a Tylenol but you could get a gender transition plan without notifying your parents.
China is investing heavily in that tech companies $280 billion every year on semiconductor research and development. That is one chips per year. Governor DeSantis. you say companies like Google and metta have too much power. doesn’t going after them. give China an edge?
Mr. DeSantis: No, I think you look at how our societies develop they have huge amount of power over our society, they’ve cracked down on free speech. We’re not saying you don’t want to do business, but you want it to be a free market. and right now they’re monopolies. but this issue of China I think, is really going to be fundamental. we have subcontracted out so much of our national needs. to the CCP, we rely on them for a whole host of issues we need to reassure and we need to decouple all those important industries.
Mr. Perino: Mr. Christie, I wanted to follow up on this because 22% of American workers fear their jobs will be lost to a robot. And you said in the past that the free market is the way to go. Would you retrain workers who lose a job to artificial intelligence, and to do what?
Mr. Christie: What I think artificial intelligence offers us is an extraordinary opportunity to expand well beyond the productivity that we have now and to have Americans be able to involve be involved in that revolution Tina, you each time we have shown incredible innovation and progress in this country.
But this is a much bigger issue than that. We can’t be afraid of innovation. America has been the great innovator of this world over the last 250 years, a technological innovator im manufacturing innovator and a freedom and governmental innovator. And that’s why America has to continue to stand strong in the world, pro innovation pro progress.
What do you see you see a young man who’s in a bit of a hurry? Maybe a little ambitious? bit of a No at all? it seems at times I’m here to tell you no, I don’t know at all. I will listen. I will have the best people the best and brightest in this country. whatever age they are advising me, we will be probably many of the people on the stage included that’s how I built my companies, I want to be challenged.
Ms. Haley: This is infuriating because Tiktok is one of the most dangerous social media so that we could have and what you’ve got, I honestly, every time I hear you I feel a little bit dumber for what you say. Because I can’t believe I’m here with Tiktok situation. What they’re doing is, these 150 million people are on Tiktok, that means they can get your contacts they can get your financial information they can get your emails they just say he’s messages.
This is very important for our family. This is very important. we got a new mate In China, not America. excuse now wanting kids to go and get on this social media. that’s dangerous for all of you when you were in business with the Chinese that gave Hunter Biden $5 million dollars. We can’t trust you.
Mr. Ramaswamy: Thank you. I think we would be better served as a Republican Party. If we’re not sitting here hurling personal insults and actually have a legitimate debate about policy following Reagan’s 11th commandment. They disagree. Let’s have a legitimate disagreement.
But is it in our best interest to degrade Russia’s military for less than 5% of what we pay annually on defense? especially when there are no US soldiers in the fight.
Ms. Haley: It’s not a territorial dispute.
Mr. Scott: 90% of the resources that we send over to Ukraine is guaranteed it’s a loan it’s not 90% of what we send over there is loan. we could talk about this, but at the end of the day 90% of money that we send over there is actually actually not be paid by Ukraine. it’s paid by the NATO or NATO allies.
So I think it’s I think it’s, I will say let’s, let’s this debate the fact that our national vital interest is in degrading the Russian military. By degrading the Russian military. we actually keep our homeland safer. We keep our troops at home and we all understand article five of NATO.
We want the American people about waiting until your turn to talk. So at the end of the day finished by, I'll be happy to respond, and look forward to this one right now. So at the end of the day, when you think about the fact that you want to keep American troops at home. Attack on NATO territory would bring us in our troops in by degrading the Russian military. We reduce, if not eliminate attacks.
excuse me if you like you‘ll have you’ll have your chance in just a moment
Ms. Haley: but I forgot, you like China.
Mr. Pence: Vivek, if you let Putin have Ukraine, that’s a green light China take Taiwan. Peace comes through strength.
Mr. Varney: Gov. Christie. President Biden’s first two years abroad, China, Russia and Iran closer together. Are we focused too much on Ukraine, and not enough on this threat from the New World Order?
Mr. Christie: They’re all connected Stewart. They’re all connected. The Chinese are paying for the Russian war in Ukraine. The Iranians are supply more sophisticated weapons, and so are the North Koreans now as well with the encouragement of the Chinese, the naivete on the stage, from some of these folks is extraordinary.
And the fact of the matter is we need to say right now that the Chinese, Russian alliance is something we have to fight against, and we are not going to solve it by going over and cuddling up to Vladimir Putin. Well, Donald Trump said, Vladimir Putin was brilliant, and a great leader.
Ms. Perino: Gov. Burgum, I want to get to Gov. Burgum, he hasn’t had a chance. I have a question I think you’re going to really like. Or at least you have experience in it.
And we need to talk about America’s farmers, because there was a foreign policy connection here, the US and China in this fierce economic competition, ’Is hurting American businesses, and there is blowback against American farmers because China then targets them in retaliation.
And we’re also in a war with them relative to cyber where we get attacked every day in North Dakota, every state, every school district, our tribes all being attacked every day by either China, Russia, Iran, or North Korea. and now we’ve got a Biden administration whose whole policy is appeasement. They’re out there, creating the world making less safe $6 billion.
They traded for five people. They’ve just now set a price on anyone’s head who is a tourist from America who’s a student from America for kidnapping if you want more kidnapping put a price on it. and then that’s in there also helping Iran get to have more closer to nuclear weapons than the which pushes all of the Middle East closer to China and Russia. The whole thing is absurd.
Ms. Calderón: Gov. Haley, Mexico’s president called those who support sending US military into the country “scoundrels.” Mexico is the United States most important trade partner and border security you say you will send special operations to attack the cartels in Mexico. So this means boots on the ground? Drone strikes?
What we will do is make sure that we send in our special operations, and we will take out the cartels will take out their operations will take out anything that’s doing it. But we’re gonna go after China because China is the one sending the fentanyl in the first place, and we will end all normal trade relations until China stops sending fentanyl.
This is where President Trump went wrong, he focused on trade with China. He didn’t focus on the fact that they were buying up our farmland he didn’t focus on the fact that they weren’t killing Americans he didn’t focus on the fact that there were stealing $600 billion, and intellectual property. He didn’t focus on the fact that they put a Spy Based off our shores and Cuba. They didn’t focus enough on the fact that all of our law enforcement drones in America are Chinese, and we’ve got all these little surveillance cells.
Ms. Perino: You’re all auditioning for the job as President of the United States. You want to earn these votes, but the world’s problems land in the oval office during the presidential debates in the year 2000. Neither Al Gore nor George W. Bush was asked about al Qaeda. yet, Just one year later, I'll quote his attack on September 11, claimed nearly 3000 lives And the farther we get from September 11. The closer we are to September 10.
Senator Scott, you have no executive branch experience. What has prepared you to protect the nation from a major man made national security crisis?
I’ve written the legislation, pass it through the Banking Committee and the Senate that would freeze the assets and sanction the accounts of the Mexican cartels there. are weapons that we have within the arsenal that I was able to get past 23 to zero and polarizing Senate as it is.
I’ve also understood without question, the fact that if you look at the details before 911 There was information to intelligence that was available that suggested an attack was coming, having the right intelligence partners with us is key to making sure that we prevent the next 911 from ever happening.
Having that experience with the last 10 years, is really important in getting the job done.
The tested experience and commitment of the conservative agenda that Ronald Reagan brought forward in this party have a strong national defense standing with our allies standing up to our enemies, supporting limited government and traditional values need to step forward understand because frankly, our party does face a time for choosing as they said at the top of this debate, whether we’re going to stand on the foundation of that conservative agenda that Ronald Reagan poured.
Or whether we’re going to follow the siren song of populism unmoored to conservative, most experienced most qualified and most consistent conservative in this field and I’m ready to lead America at home and abroad on day one.
Ms. Perino: It is now a time for choosing to go to a break. Ilia.
Ms. Calderón: We need to go to a commercial break. Ronald Reagan built a coalition that lasted decades, Can any of these candidates do the same? We'll take that up when the debate continues.
Mr. Varney: Welcome back to the Republican primary debate here at the Reagan Library. We’ve got a lot more issues to cover, and a lot more questions to go, so let’s dive right back in. We’re here in California, where gas is nearing $6 A gallon oil is close to $100 a barrel again.
Mr. Ramaswamy: Well, look, I think that we do have to run through the courts and get through that administrative state.
and get through that administrative state to make sure we’re using the Natural Resources here at home but here’s the other thing that we can do, it’s easy.
Mr. Varney: It’ll take forever Mr. Ramaswamy.
That’s how we unleash the economy. That’s how we revive the integrity of a three branch. constitutional republic, rather than this technocracy.
But on day one, Joe Biden declared a war on energy, which was no surprise because when Joe Biden ran for president, he said he was going to end fossil fuels. and they’ve been working overtime to do that ever since. If I’m President of the United States.
Mr. Varney: Gov. Haley, reaction to that please.
Ms. Haley: So you know the first thing I’ll say is, what I saw at the United Nations is that energy security is national security.
Ron DeSantis is against fracking, he’s against drilling, he’s been against … you did it. Every he always talks about what happens on day one, you better watch out because what happens on day two is when you’re in trouble de to in Florida.
Mr. Varney: Gov. DeSantis you were mentioned, you have the right to respond, 30 seconds.
Mr. DeSantis: This is ridiculous, because the state of Florida, our voters enacted a constitution … that doesn’t allow
Ms. Haley: You banned it before they voted
Ms. Haley: And not only that, they didn’t vote on fracking.
Mr. DeSantis: She’s completely wrong. They voted it in, that’s what we did.
Ms. Haley: Check it. Check it.
(Crosstalk)
Gov. DeSantis, this is your question. The Biden Administration is hell bent on student loan forgiveness, but you say colleges should be on the hook. When graduates cannot pay their debt. How does that address the cost of college itself?
because the colleges are gonna have to make a decision do we offer do we expand the Gender Studies Department knowing some of those graduates may not have great I learned about this? no. they’re gonna focus on the things that really matter. They’re going to make different choices. they’re gonna try to graduate people in four years.
I also just want to come back some Dana said in the last segment about 911. Because I was just at the 911 Memorial with the families my wife and everybody’s very touching to be there and it affected my life because I ended up joining the military as a result of that. I’ve been a blue collar kid minimum wage in Florida. I ended up getting through Yale and Harvard Law School and somehow came out more conservative than when I went in and that is not easy to do.
I had a lot of opportunities to make money but I wanted to serve and I‘ll never forget coming back on the plane from Iraq, landing in Coronado, California North Island and feeling that breeze up the Pacific Ocean to say you know what, I am lucky to have been born in America. And I think being able to serve and I’ll be the first president elected since 1988 has actually served overseas in a war.
I think that’s going to help me as Commander in Chief to know how you see these issues and understand that there are real lives at stake for people that wear the uniform.
Number two, if you want to actually reduce our national debt, you have to grow our economy in order to grow our economy. you need to create about 10 million jobs, to grow our economy.
At 5%. you can do that in three specific sectors. number one, the energy sector we could create between three and three and a half million jobs if we unleashed all of our energy resources. America is the most. We’re the richest country if you combined coal, gas and oil, why not unleash all of our resources. Number two, we’ve lost 100,000 factories 100,000 factories in the last 25 years.
Ms. Perino: Gov. Haley, Do you think you think you would deserve a promotion?
Ms. Haley: I appreciate him. We’ve known each other a long time. But he’s been there 12 years and he hasn’t done any of that. He hasn’t. They’ve only given four budgets on time in 40 year. Where have you been? We’ve waited and nothing has happened.
Mr. Scott: I’ve voted on most of those things.
(Crosstalk)
Just look at zero based budgeting. That’s the way businesses are actually run. Start with zero as the baseline for the budget and then see what’s actually necessary. There isn’t a blue state or a red state in this union that does it. The federal government doesn’t do it but successful companies including the ones that are built as a CEO, and need a CEO in the White House.
And now finally good we’re having the conversation about it, but we’ve got the answer in North Dakota, done in government.
Mr. Varney: Gov. Burgum, you say you want to shrink the size of government. It’s been a century since any President has done that. Why would you be any different?
Mr. Burgum: Because we do it. we’re doing We’ve done it in North Dakota. When I took office we shrunk the state budget general fund by 27%. In the first four months I was office and we all a train stop running on time. Why? because you had a business leader that was actually there.
Ms. Perino: Gov. DeSantis want to ask you about something I think it’s on a lot of Republicans minds. This election could come down to less than 50,000 votes in three states. abortion was on the ballot in six states in 2022. Republicans lost all of them. Next year abortion will likely be on the ballot in Arizona. That is a must win state.
Gov DeSantis, how are you going to win over independent pro choice voters in Arizona?
Ms. Perino: Let me ask Gov. Christie. Gov. Christie, do you think that Republicans … ok, Gov. Christie, do you think that Republicans can do that in Arizona, if this referendum is on the ballot.
Mr. Christie: Yeah, because I did it in New Jersey, Dana.
Ms. Perino: Then why are all these other states losing?
And what we did was 14 times in eight years, I’ve either Planned Parenthood. 14 times. No one else gets it that much. The Democrats have three and I kept saying no, because I believe in life, but also believe in states rights, and I think we fought hard against Roe versus Wade. For decades the standard states should make these decisions.
We need to make sure that for the drug addicted 16 year old and before the county lockup for life is precious to and we need to be providing treatment to cure this as a disease that is if you’re pro life, you got to be pro life for the entire life. We'll start talking like that. They’re going to do what I did in the blue state, which was getting reelected with 61% of the vote and one 70% of independents and 51% of Latinos because I told them the truth from my heart.
Ms. Calderón: Vice President Pence. Revision for found that 73% of Latino voters think the Republican Party doesn’t care about, or is being hostile toward them. Only Governor DeSantis has translated his campaign into Spanish. How will you reach out to Latino voters?
Mr. Pence: I promise you that we’re going to continue to build bridges every community in this country, and I’m incredibly proud of that. Tax cut of tax reform bill I worked on Capitol Hill to help get that bill passed into law the largest tax cut in American history we saw, literally, the lowest unemployment ever recorded for Hispanic Americans, lowest unemployment ever recorded for African Americans 50 year low, for women.
And I promise you if our president of the United States, I‘ll be a champion, I’ll be a champion for the American Dream for Hispanic Americans and for every American. So help me God.
Mr. Scott: There’s no doubt that if you lead by example, It’s the best way to get the job done to look at my office in the Senate. my chief of staff is the only Hispanic female chief of staff in the Senate. I hired her because she was the best highest qualified person, we have what we need our leaders who lead by example.
Mr. Scott: So you said yes.
Ms. Haley: They were there before I even showed up at the residence. You are scrapping. You are scrapping. You know I find …
(Crosstalk)
Ms. Perino: And welcome back to the final minuets. I could go another hour, but we only have a few minutes.
Please use your marker to write your choice on a notepad in front of you. 15 seconds starting now, of the people on the stage.
Mr. DeSantis: All due respect, I mean, we’re here like we’re happy to debate, but I think that that’s disrespectful to my fellow competitors.
Ms. Perino: Nobody wants to?
We are not getting a mulligan on the 2024 election Republicans have lost three straight elections in a row, we were supposed to have a red wave with inflation at 9% and crashed and burned not in Florida, didn’t we delivered it in Florida. And so we’ve got to choose right we’ve got a win and we need somebody that’s going to be able to serve two terms.
Ms. Perino: Can we give Vivek 15 seconds, Vivek.