The amended conscription regulations were approved by the ruling Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) State Council and the Central Military Commission in April. They cover all aspects of China’s military recruitment and personnel deployment processes, making it easier, faster, and more specialized for domestic emergencies and wartime.
“The retired service people under the age of 45 must join the military reserve force in China. In fact, the reserve force is also an integral part of the armed forces, and there is no difference between voluntary and involuntary. When you go into the reserves, you’re a soldier,” Yao Cheng, former Lt. Col. of the CCP Navy Command, told the ”New Vision” program on NTD, the sister media outlet of The Epoch Times.
Regarding why veterans are one of the main target groups for the new conscription regulations, Yao said that modern warfare is carried out under high-tech conditions, and it takes a lot of money to train a professional technical soldier.
“The retired service people basically all have professional skills, such as pilots. Even if they have been retired for years, if the military needs them, they can directly fly fighter jets,” he said.
Japanese media Nikkei Asia pointed out that the CCP’s newly revised conscription regulations focus on recruiting students who are proficient in artificial intelligence, high technology, and engineering so they can operate weapons on fighter planes and warships, preparing them for new types of warfare such as cyber, space, and intelligence. The CCP aims to seize Taiwan by force, the report said.
“You can see that the geopolitical environment around the CCP is very harsh, and the main battlefield should be at sea. The main focus is the South China Sea. The main target in the South China Sea is the Philippines.”
Yao believes the CCP does not have the ability to attack Taiwan at the moment, “however, it doesn’t mean that it will not be capable of attacking in the future.
“It will definitely invade Taiwan, but not right now. [Taiwan] is not what needs to be fought at present, as the political environment around China is very bad,” he said.
The CCP has taken a series of actions to prepare for war.
A netizen responded: “The children and wives of high-ranking officials have all moved to the United States. Why should we, the common people, have to risk our lives [to go to war for them]?”
Others said, “Let the officials go first.”
Yao pointed out: “The CCP has brought the country to the brink of war. [CCP leader] Xi Jinping wants to wage war to protect his life and position. The CCP wages wars to protect its rule, not to protect the people.