In January 2023, Time Higher Education (UK) announced the ranking of the most international universities in the world in 2023. Hong Kong universities rank high in “internationalization” by counting mainland faculty and students as international faculty and students. Zheng Yanxiong, the Director of the Hong Kong Liaison Office, invited senior council members of 11 Hong Kong tertiary education institutions to a spring dinner on Feb. 15, and said he hoped that they would continue to be internationalized.
All universities in Hong Kong have long counted mainland Chinese as part of their “international” student and staff population. For example, of the 1,114 professors at HKU in 2021/2022, 335 are from mainland China, accounting for about 30 percent of all professors and 44.7 percent of non-local professors. In addition, the University has 33,702 students in all programs, of which 10,414 are from Mainland China, accounting for 31 percent of all students and 76.7 percent of the non-local student population.
Benson Wong Wai-kwok, a former assistant professor of politics and international relations at Baptist University, said in an interview with The Epoch Times on Feb. 15 that the Hong Kong National Security Law has caused many academics to leave Hong Kong, and that Hong Kong’s tertiary institutions are no longer internationalized.
Wong analyzed that Zheng wanted to use the internationalization of universities as a cover to hide Hong Kong’s “one country, one system.” Moreover, the internationalization of universities, he said, does not mean Hong Kong’s tertiary institutions have academic and research freedom, nor does it suggest that the governance of universities is open and transparent. On the contrary, the universities will only develop in response to the needs of mainland China and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), such as in the area of artificial intelligence and the chip industry.
He also pointed out that based on Zheng’s political background,  Zheng’s remarks were united front tactics for the university management and council chairmen.