Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese will meet with Democrat California Governor Gavin Newsom to discuss clean energy technology.
The leader is in the United States for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) meeting in San Francisco.
Mr. Albanese is planning to discuss Australia’s partnership with California on climate and clean energy with Mr. Newsom.
“But we have an important agreement between Australia and California, a very large economy in its own right, about clean energy technology as well.”
In August, Australia and California signed a partnership agreeing to work together on climate change.
Australia’s Ambassador to the U.S. Kevin Rudd, and Governor Newsom, signed the joint statement on Aug. 15 in Sacramento.
The Australian Department for Climate Change said both countries were “prone to similar weather events and disasters such as wildfires, drought and flooding.
“Through the MOU we will collaborate on policy, work together on projects, and encourage public-private partnerships. We will also exchange scientific knowledge and technical expertise,” the department said.
Meanwhile, Opposition Leader Peter Dutton said Mr. Albanese should have cancelled his visit to the United States to deal with community safety issues at home.
The president, in comments that generated laughter from the audience, hinted Mr. Newsom could have a shot at the top job in the future.
“I want to talk about Governor Newsom. Want to thank him. He’s been one hell of a governor, man. Matter of fact, he could be anything he wants. He could have the job I’m looking for,” President Biden said.
Gov. Newsom has also been in the spotlight for his efforts in cleaning up San Francisco ahead of the APEC conference.
San Francisco has been the site of tents for thousands of homeless in recent years, but the city was spotless ahead of APEC.
“Anytime you put on an event, by definition, you have people over at your house, you are going to clean up the house.”
Meanwhile, in California, President Biden held several hours of meetings with Xi Jinping, after which he was asked if he would still consider the Chinese leader a “dictator.”
Meanwhile, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, leader of the centre-left Liberal Party of Canada, also met with Mr. Newsom to discuss climate change.
“Gavin Newsom and I spoke about that and many other priorities today, and about how we can keep working together. Good to see you again, my friend.”
During the “constructive meeting,” the prime minister and Mr. Nadella discussed a recent $5 billion investment by Microsoft into Australia.
Further, the two announced a decision to use artificial intelligence (AI) within the public service via a partnership with the tech giant.