China is striving to dominate the Fourth Industrial revolution, according to David Goldman, Spengler columnist for Asia Times and PJ Media.
According to Xi, the next decade will largely determine who leads the next industrial revolution. “The next ten years will be a key decade,” Xi said, stating that “a new round of technological revolution and industrial change—artificial intelligence, big data, quantum information, and biotechnology—are gathering strength.”
“If China dominates the Fourth Industrial Revolution, then you will have an autocracy allied to other autocracies being the dominant economic power in the world to the detriment of the democracies,” he noted.
In this case, Goldman argued, “we will be poor, we‘ll be less secure, we’ll be more beholden to other countries, our children will have a much dimmer future.”
In his opinion, China lags far behind the United States in terms of microchip fabrication. “In terms of the production of the actual semiconductors that do the data processing and storage, it’s 10 to 20 years behind us,” he said.
“However, in many of the applications to which you apply chips, China is much more advanced—particularly when it concerns 5G broadband and its application to things like autonomous vehicles, factories, ports, and so forth. So it’s a very unbalanced situation,” he added.
On March 21, the U.S. Commerce Department went a step further by releasing proposed rules to prevent billions of dollars in semiconductor manufacturing and research funding from being used by China and other countries deemed of concern.
These approaches, Goldman said, can hold back Chinese chip manufacturing for some time, but would not work in the long run.
“Denying access to China—not only to very fast chips, but the equipment you need to make fast chips—will eventually require China ... to build its own industry,” he noted.
“China has a very large skilled manpower pool, it has lots of engineers, and if it puts enough effort into it, it will eventually come up to speed, and we will face a formidable competitor that will try to knock our companies out of the market,” he said, “just as China destroyed the American solar-panel industry.”
As a result, the expert suggested that the United States should advance its own industry, which he deemed a more effective strategy.