With reports saying artificial intelligence system ChatGPT has passed exams and can produce reports, experts have warned that some jobs could become obsolete in the future.
Earlier this week, a research paper said ChatGPT was able to pass a graduate-level exam at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School. Some professors have expressed alarm about students using the service to cheat on exams or their homework.
But if the system becomes capable, ChatGPT and other artificial intelligence could replace a number of white-collar jobs, some researchers have warned.
“Copy editing is certainly something it does an extremely good job at. Summarizing, making an article concise and things of that nature, it certainly does a really good job,” Chinmay Hegde, a computer science and electrical engineering associate professor at New York University, told the Post.
“You can ask it to provide an essay, to produce a story with citations, but more often than not, the citations are just made up,” Hegde continued. “That’s a known failure of ChatGPT and honestly we do not know how to fix that.”
Hegde added to the paper that some simple website designers and engineers are at risk of losing their jobs.
“I worry for such people. Now I can just ask ChatGPT to generate a website for me—any type of person whose routine job would be doing this for me is no longer needed,” he said.
Earlier in January, Princeton student Edward Tian told NPR that he created an app to see if something was written via AI, called GPTZero.
ChatGPT’s average C+ performance fell below the humans’ B+ average, the authors said. If applied across the curriculum, that would still be enough to earn the chatbot a law degree—though it would be placed on academic probation at Minnesota, ranked as the 21st best law school in the country by U.S. News & World Report.
A tech marketing agency, Codeword, said it decided to use so-called AI “interns” to assist its design and editorial teams to carry out “menial yet necessary tasks.”