With graduation looming amid a fiercely competitive job market, many college students in China are scrambling to find a position.
At a free live-stream webinar hosted in mid-June by a training company for job seekers, many of the 800 participants—primarily unemployed 2023 and 2022 graduates—eagerly posted comments to claim free templates for resumes.
“Many of my trainees told me that they live with their parents, who had been scolding them for not trying hard enough to land a job,” the event host told the attendees.
“I can tell them [parents]: Finding a job this year is challenging. It’s the market; it’s not you. Forwarding my webinar to your parents will help you alleviate the anxiety.”
Based on the emojis and remarks in the comments section, anxiety was common among attendees of the webinar, held on a popular Chinese social media app. Statistics point to a similar picture.
China’s official youth unemployment rates were 20.4 percent in April and 20.8 percent in May—about four times the overall unemployment rate of 5.2 percent. Those rates are also about double the level of youth unemployment just before pandemic measures were implemented.
On June 18, the investment bank also cut China’s 2023 gross domestic product (GDP) growth forecast to 5.4 percent from 6 percent, citing macroeconomic issues—property sector, debt issues, and U.S.–China tensions—that are unlikely to be addressed by China’s stimulus measures.
The problem preceded the pandemic and has been 15 years in the making, Balding told The Epoch Times.
“I don’t think the pandemic’s contribution to this is zero. However, I don’t think it’s a majority. The pandemic probably made it a little bit worse, but these problems would exist with or without the pandemic.”
Balding said that China went on a path of pushing for artificially high growth rates after 2008, growing infrastructure regardless of demand. At the same time, Chinese authorities, companies, and families have piled on debt.
“It’s basically advising banks to help firms repair their credit, ignore firms’ missed payments, and so on,” Balding said. “The fact that they’re putting out that type of advice to financial institutions, as a regulator, speaks to the depth of the problem related to debt.”
“And if you’re a heavily indebted company, taking on more debt or taking on additional labor is a very big ask,” he added, referring to the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP’s) policies to stimulate hiring.
In Balding’s view, China’s supply-driven growth has hit a wall and can theoretically be solved by stimulating demand. However, he considers driving demand unrealistic because the CCP can’t do what’s required—that is, to empower consumers and give individuals the freedom of choice.
Antonio Graceffo, a China economic analyst and a contributor to The Epoch Times, said that the regime has routinely responded to economic trouble by investing in infrastructure. But that approach might not work this time.
“All the sensible infrastructure has already been built in China; we’re at a point where all the major ports, the cities, everything is connected. So when they build more infrastructure now, it’s really just making work,” he told The Epoch Times.
“You’re just creating jobs, paying for it out of the public revenues, and it’s not necessarily yielding any sort of significant GDP advantage.”
The country no longer has the types of infrastructure projects such as the Beijing–Shanghai high-speed rail to fuel GDP growth again, Graceffo said.
“I think China has seen their biggest growth that they’re ever going to see,” he said.
Job seekers between the ages of 16 and 24 include middle school and high school graduates from rural areas seeking urban employment and city students with undergraduate degrees.
A professor at a private college in Guangzhou, a mega city in China’s affluent coastal south, believes that the actual rate is much higher than the official 20 percent, and could be as high as 80 percent. She spoke to The Epoch Times on the condition that her name, college, and professional field remain anonymous to avoid her being tracked by the CCP.
She said that only two of the 350 graduates in her department this year had found jobs. With graduation on June 28, students must provide employment information to get the diploma.
“Students are not issued a diploma if they do not provide employment paperwork. The rule is understood but not written,” the professor told The Epoch Times, adding that if a student should challenge the rule with the school or the city’s education department, the school would then withhold the diploma, citing insufficient internship credit.
As a result, students fake employment in various ways, according to the professor. He cited the example of a friend whose son hasn’t worked for three years after graduation but is “employed” on paper.
In China, public colleges are considered to be of a higher academic caliber than private ones and have lower tuition. As the common campus recruiting sources for SOEs, they have creative ways to boost their graduates’ employment rate.
The professor, who previously taught at a public college, said that public institutions engage in a practice known as “hitchhikes” to skirt the rules. For example, if an SOE had a quota of two new hires for a college, the college would give the SOE a list of 12 additional student names in order to ink fraudulent three-way agreements. In this way, the university’s “education quality” report looks better, and its unemployment rate is also lower on paper.
Since three-way agreements aren’t real labor contracts, signing such “hitchhiking” paperwork doesn’t result in actual employment.
In light of global statistics, the fact that China’s more than 20 percent rate is about four times the country’s overall unemployment rate is “really a serious problem,” Jean Yeung, a professor of sociology at the National University of Singapore, told The Epoch Times.
Yeung also estimates that the youth unemployment rate is higher than 20 percent taking into consideration the underemployed—those who have to take part-time positions because they can’t find full-time employment or who are overqualified workers.
“Overall, there’s definitely an increase in anxiety, disappointment, and doubt [among China’s youths] about what the future has in store.”
Yeung said that the difficulty of getting that first job, seen as a marker of a youth’s transition to adulthood, will likely affect their following transitions to marriage and parenthood.
A high youth unemployment rate might lead to “disenchantment” with the communist regime in China and its leader, Xi Jinping, Graceffo said.
“In a way, the young people are really the most important people for a political system like the CCP to function. The CCP controls education because they want the children to be indoctrinated with CCP policy and to love the Party.
“These children don’t have siblings; they don’t have anybody else to rely on except for their parents and the CCP.”
Since 1999, China has embarked on a college expansion policy to facilitate a hoped-for transition from a labor-intensive economy to one that’s based on technology and knowledge. This has led to an exponential increase in college graduates.
About 1 million college students graduated in 2000. That figure rose to 10 million in 2022, marking an 18 percent growth from 2021.
The increased supply of graduates has been exacerbated by the weakened worker demand, a problem that’s driven partly by the CCP’s pandemic lockdowns and by non-pandemic-related policies.
Data from May shows weakening manufacturing and services sectors amid sluggish demand.
Struggling students have turned to graduate studies instead. For the first time in Beijing, graduates of postgraduate programs are projected to surpass graduates with bachelor’s degrees this year.
The CCP’s attempts to tackle youth unemployment, which include allowing more students to enroll in graduate programs as well as a one-time hiring expansion by the SOEs, are only temporary solutions that kick the can down the road, according to Yeung.
In her view, the key is to drive up employee demand, which will require more recruitment from both the private sector and SOEs.
“China needs to try very hard to get people’s confidence and spirit up again,” Yeung said, adding that China needs to get the markets working to meet people’s post-pandemic expectations.
The CCP’s youth unemployment problem is “self-inflicted,” Ezrati said. “Had Xi been true to his ambitions to have a service, knowledge economy ... this problem would probably exist, but not be nearly as severe.
“At the same time as [Xi] talked about a knowledge economy and a service economy, he put great stress on effectively cornering the market in certain crucial industries, such as chip manufacturing and electric vehicles and batteries.”
In Ezrati’s view, the CCP’s way out is to adopt a market-based economy, which the communist regime would never do because authoritative central planning is ingrained as a core ideology. A market-based economy would mean a flourishing private sector, which the CCP has been clamping down on for almost three years.