Parliamentarians in 2024 will be faced with a number of pieces of high-profile proposed legislation ranging from increasing consumer privacy and pharmacare, to transitioning away from fossil fuels and  delaying the expansion of euthanasia to the mentally ill.
While the Opposition, especially the Conservatives, can be expected to vote against most of the Liberal government’s legislation, their votes may not be enough to kill the bills due to the Liberals’ confidence-and-supply partnership with the New Democrats.
Ever since a cabinet-appointed advisory council’s recommendation for a universal, single-payer public pharmacare system was released in 2019, the Liberal government has been under pressure to deliver on the program. The advisory council estimated that a system would cost $15 billion a year once fully implemented, while a Parliamentary Budget Office report from October 2023 found the program would cost $11.2 billion in the first year of 2024–25 and increasing to $14.4 billion in 2027.
The bill would also create rules on the responsible development of artificial intelligence systems, with companies being required to explain their rationale for developing such systems. A commissioner would have the authority to order independent audits of companies’ activities related to the technology.
Bill C-49 would update the offshore accords Ottawa has with the provinces of Newfoundland and Labrador and Nova Scotia, focusing on the development of offshore wind farms. The legislation does not address the compensation that would be given to fishermen who lose business because of the projects.
Sen. Pierre Dalphond, who tabled the amendment, said he did so based on “clear evidence that reducing emissions in barn heating is possible now, like with other buildings, and that a three-year exemption is more reasonable than eight years for grain drying, considering available efficiencies and emerging technology.”
While the Liberals introduced a “technical discussion paper” on the subject and rolled out a consultation process on a proposed online harms legislative framework in 2021, it died after a federal election was called. Concerns have been were on whether the legislation would lead to online censorship.
The Liberal Party’s platform says the proposed legislation is meant to address “hate speech.”