Australian chief executives are not as confident about artificial intelligence (AI) as their global counterparts.
More than two thirds of CEOs globally view generative AI as the number one investment priority.
However, among Australian CEOs, 56 percent rate AI as a top priority compared to 70 percent internationally.
Higher profit and “job creation” are seen as the two major benefits of generative AI among the Australian leaders.
Generative AI refers to artificial technology that can produce content such as text, images, audio and data.
“I am not surprised to see generative AI at the top of the investment priorities for CEOs, given its vast potential to transform business processes, but I am encouraged to see that business leaders do not view it as a threat to their employees, but on the contrary as a driver of job creation,” Mr. Yates said.
“Companies in many sectors are looking to establish a Responsible AI framework to help them deal with the ethical challenges around the use of AI whilst also taking advantage of the technology advances.
In addition, 62 percent raised concerns about lack of regulation, 52 percent mentioned the cost and 45 percent were worried about adoption among employees.
“Around two-thirds of Australian leaders said the level of regulation for AI should mirror climate commitments,” KPMG stated.
Globally, the survey found 52 percent of leaders believe they will see a return on investment in generative AI in the next three to five years.
“Generative AI is an increasingly hot topic in boardrooms, with leaders looking to better understand its potential and how to implement this technology in their business strategies,” KPMG International chief digital officer Lisa Heneghan said.
“The challenge is spending the money in the right places and having the right skills to fully exploit the opportunities it presents.”
The 9th KPMG CEO outlook involved a survey of 1,325 CEOs, with 50 of these global leaders coming from Australia.
The online interview of 463 employees in June found 41 percent of Australian employees are worried that generative AI could take away their job.
And 55 percent of ChatGPT users believe the technology improves workflow, while 44 percent said the application saves time.
ChatGPT, created by San Francisco based OpenAI, was introduced to the world in Nov. 30, 2022.