According to President Joe Biden, his two hours together with Chinese leader Xi Jinping in San Francisco was time well spent. Xi, he said, had agreed to resume high-level military communications, to reduce fentanyl exports to the United States, and to not militarize artificial intelligence.
Just a few days earlier, the State Department had proudly announced that it had struck a deal with China for both countries to “accelerate” the transition from coal, oil, and gas generation to green energy sources such as wind and solar power.
What does history tell us about such arrangements with China?
What about President Biden’s claim that “[Xi] and I agreed that each one of us can pick up the phone, call directly, and we’ll be heard immediately”?
President Biden has forgotten, if he ever knew, that hotlines have never worked with China. When the first President Bush tried to call Deng Xiaoping during the Tiananmen Square massacre, Deng refused to pick up. When a reckless Chinese fighter jet pilot caused a midair collision with a U.S. EP-3 surveillance aircraft, Beijing again refused to answer repeated phone calls from Washington.
What’s the likelihood that Xi would take President Biden’s phone call in the event of a crisis?
Most Americans know that the fentanyl comes from labs run by the Mexican cartels. What they don’t know is that without shipments of the chemical precursors to fentanyl from China, the production of the opiate in cartel-run labs would grind to a halt. And without China to launder billions of dollars in profits, the cartels would be drowning in hard-to-hide cash, their money neither portable nor investable.
Now, President Biden claims that he has secured a commitment in principle from the Chinese “dictator”—as he called Xi—to crack down on the Chinese producers and exporters of fentanyl and its precursor drugs.
It’s certainly true that if Xi wanted to, he could cut off the cartels in less time than it takes for fentanyl to stop a beating heart. There are effectively no private companies in China. Chinese Communist Party (CCP) leaders may deny it, but they know exactly which pharmaceutical companies in China are producing and shipping the chemicals needed to make fentanyl.
The fact that they’ve continued to allow it for more than a decade suggests to me that this is deliberate: Beijing is using the drug cartels to wage a kind of proxy war against the United States and its citizens. And, as an added bonus, as American casualties mount, so do China’s profits.
In other words, President Biden seems to have given up a significant technological advantage for ... nothing. We'll stop research on military applications of AI while the People’s Liberation Army continues to press forward. The hi-tech advantage that we currently have will be eroded as China catches up and surpasses us.
Since wind and solar power are unreliable, the administration’s ill-conceived deal will condemn Americans to higher power bills, factory closures, and job losses. Not to mention the blighting of the American landscape with giant bird-killing Cuisinarts and ugly arrays of solar panels that are costly to manufacture, have short lifespans, and are impossible to recycle.
In other words, the most likely outcome of the current agreement is that, as America’s fossil fuel industry is crushed and we’re reduced to praying that the wind blows and the sun shines, China will continue to build two coal-fired power plants every month.
Even if President Biden doesn’t, Xi understands that access to cheap energy is the difference between wealth and poverty. And he doesn’t suffer from “climate anxiety.”