A growing number of employers are shifting their focus to skills-based hiring from degree-based hiring. Three employment experts told The Epoch Times their thoughts on the emerging skills-based hiring trend and the new career opportunities it presents in the United States’ evolving job market.
Christi Tasker, the CEO of social media marketing agency Puttin' Out, agrees.
“I hire people from all over the world for digital marketing, branding, and public relations and I’ve never hired someone based on a degree,” Ms. Tasker told The Epoch Times. “I’ve always hired based on the content of their work.”
Puttin' Out is a social media marketing agency based in Miami. Ms. Tasker is also a 2024 candidate for commissioner in the city’s 2nd District.
“I always recommend that [job seekers] get a portfolio ready as soon as they have an opportunity to market their own skills for the job they want, not a job that’s already listed,” Ms. Tasker said. “I encourage young entrepreneurs and potential employees to approach the employer with a sense that the employer needs them more than they need the job.
“It’s really about the skill set, the desire, the motivation of the person, and not their degrees,” she said.
“There are people coming out of that school who didn’t arrive with a four-year degree but who leave with more skills than the ones who have one,” she said. “I’ve built my business on what my employees are good at, and I don’t have a degree.”
“People can do anything they want to do,” she said, adding that successful people are self-starters with a drive that shows at an early age.
By the age of 8, she was making her own jewelry and selling it at craft shows. She learned to manage cash flow from her grandmother, who was a banker.
“There are many ways to learn skills without a degree,” she noted. “I would suggest a trade school.”
Trade schools are an alternative to college, offering benefits from lower costs and faster graduation time to “real-world experience” and “preparation for in-demand skills,” according to Best Colleges.
Through her own clients, Ms. Tasker sees a shortage of plumbers and electricians. She suggested that high school students “shadow an electrician or a plumber and learn how these things are done.”
“We’re in a society where we are breeding a group of people who just want to be social media influencers,” she said, “and the reality is, this is going to put us in a massive hole when it comes to the basics in life when there are no longer any construction workers.
In an interview with The Epoch Times, Julie Lammers, senior vice president of advocacy and corporate social responsibility at ASA, explained the significance of the study and what employers and prospective employees can learn from it.
“That survey really highlighted the fact that some employers are struggling to meet talent needs. But they continue to hire in the same way they always have, largely because they don’t have good resources or the ability to evaluate new types of skills and new types of credentials,” Ms. Lammers said.
She advised that students should start thinking about “the world of work and understand their place in it no later than middle school.”
They should then start building a skill set through work-based learning, internships, and entrepreneurial experiences in high school so they gain an understanding of their personal workplace identity. Building good “social capital,” an ability to work well with others, is something you can’t learn in a textbook, but it’s something that most employers are looking for.
“Those are the things employers are really looking for. Yet we still see employers screening people based on degrees,” she said.
Ultimately, she said, until the 52 percent of employers stop limiting their hiring to a hunt for degreed candidates, they’re going to keep getting the same limited-skills result.
While “necessary,” the study concluded that academic skills are “not sufficient.”
“Degrees, over time, have become a proxy for things like persistence and the ability to complete a task,” she said. “But it doesn’t necessarily mean you have the expertise and skills an employer would want.”
Asked whether she had more recent data on the skills versus degree job market, Ms. Lammers said they are in the process of conducting an additional survey, “but those results have not been published yet.”
She said she believes that a two-year and four-year degree are important but that the decision of whether to obtain a degree depends on what kind of job a person is seeking.
If you want to be a business cyber security major and you want to be a chief information security officer, Ms. McCarthy said, “you’re going to need a four-year degree.”
But if you are going more on a technical track, working on software application development and cloud technology, she said employers are looking more for people with skills and hands-on experience.
“For many of the hires, the need for skills overtakes the need for a degree,” she said, adding that some skill requirements are “so specific and so new that you won’t learn them in college.”
It’s a program for high school grads who didn’t have the opportunity to go to college. But they have the “right attitude and aptitude across the board.”
“Some are single parents,” she said. “We put them in boot camps for several weeks and teach them the necessary skills, and they’re coming out certified.”
The program, free to students, is covered by scholarships and corporate sponsorship.
However, the TestGorilla survey showed that 92.5 percent of companies that used skills-based hiring saw a 44 percent reduction in the number of bad hires.
The average yearly cost to attend an undergraduate four-year public college or university with room and board was $21,035. That’s $84,140 for a bachelor’s degree.
And the average cost to attend a four-year private college or university was $48,965 annually, or a total of $195,860.
Monthly payments on the $22,138 associate’s degree at 4.99 percent would run $235. Monthly payments on the $84,140 bachelor’s degree from a public institution would run $892. And for the $195,860 bachelor’s degree from a private school, the payments would be $2,076 per month.
Then there is the dropout rate.
Only 62.3 percent of students completed their degree program within six years.
The dropout rate for first-generation college students is 92.2 percent higher than for students whose parents earned a degree.
In May 2022, 7 percent of the students who enrolled in college dropped out during the first semester, and 31 percent of those students did so to get a job.