The Goldman Sachs study predicts automation will generate new jobs, offsetting the historical replacement of workers. The report estimates that technological innovation will create most of the long-term employment growth, although the timing of this significant increase in economic growth remains uncertain.
The study projects that global annual productivity could increase by 1.4 percent over ten years with the adoption of AI. Hong Kong is anticipated to experience the highest growth, with an annual productivity increase of around 1.6 percentage points.
The Goldman Sachs study mainly focuses on Europe and the United States. In the U.S., the Occupational Employment and Wage Survey (OEWS) estimates that a quarter of current job tasks can be automated by AI, with seven percent of jobs likely to be replaced by AI. By comparison, 63 percent of jobs will be supplemented by AI for productivity, and 30 percent will not be affected.
The most “high-risk” jobs for AI replacement, ranked in descending order, are office and administrative support (46 percent of employment may be replaced by AI), law (44 percent), architecture and engineering (37 percent), life and social sciences (36 percent), business and financial operations (35 percent), and community and social services (33 percent).
In contrast, labor-intensive jobs such as construction (one percent), installation and maintenance (four percent), production work (nine percent), and transportation (11 percent) are less likely to be replaced. According to the Eurostat Labor Force Survey and other data, 24 percent of jobs are estimated to be replaceable by AI.
The research reveals that, among 30 different regions worldwide, Hong Kong is at the forefront of the global trend, with almost 30 percent of its jobs likely to be replaced by AI. Developed market economies such as Israel, Japan, Sweden, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Singapore follow closely, with roughly 25 to 30 percent of their jobs vulnerable to automation. Argentina, an emerging market economy, is next with approximately 25 percent of jobs that could be supplanted by AI, tying with Europe as a developed market economy.
The Census and Statistics Department’s “Manpower Projection Report 2027” predicts that AI development will increase the demand for IT professionals. In addition, due to the rapid development of financial technology, data analysis, AI, and cybersecurity, Hong Kong’s economy sectors will have a significant demand for IT talents with comprehensive knowledge and experience. Consequently, the overall market for IT practitioners is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 2.5 percent to 119,000 in 2027.
Conversely, the report expects a decrease in demand for less educated manpower by 2027 as Hong Kong shifts to a knowledge-based, high-value-added economy emphasizing creativity, professionalism, and AI application.
According to the Goldman Sachs study, AI adoption can increase labor productivity in the U.S. by 1.5 percentage points per year, similar to the impact of previous transformative technologies such as electric motors and personal computers. In addition, the study predicts that AI could increase global annual productivity by 1.4 percentage points over ten years, with Hong Kong expected to have the highest growth rate at approximately 1.6 percentage points.