“The Committee’s May 25 letter was addressed to Attorney General Garland because it sought documents in possession of the broader Department of Justice, not solely the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Delaware,” Jordan wrote. “We reiterate those requests to the Department and expect to receive the responsive material promptly.”
Adding to his initial requests, Jordan asked that Weiss provide a list of all those who assisted in drafting his June 7 letter, as well as the names of the people who “instructed” him to sign and send it and who forwarded him the committee’s letter.
Noting that Jordan’s inquiry appeared to relate to an investigation in his district, Weiss wrote, “If my assumption is correct, I want to make clear that, as the Attorney General has stated, I have been granted ultimate authority over this matter, including responsibility for deciding where, when, and whether to file charges and for making decisions necessary to preserve the integrity of the prosecution, consistent with federal law, the Principles of Federal Prosecution, and Departmental regulations.”
Citing the need to keep his investigation “separate from the sphere of politics,” the attorney said that Jordan and his committee were seeking confidential information and that his work would be “seriously prejudiced” if he were to accommodate their requests.
“Throughout my tenure as U.S. Attorney, my decisions have been made—and with respect to the matter must be made—without reference to political considerations,” Weiss said.
Jordan, however, noted in his reply that the committee did not ask for information about Weiss’ investigation but rather the Justice Department’s treatment of a protected whistleblower.
“Here, the Committee’s focus is not interested in ‘where, when, and whether’ the Department will prosecute or decline to prosecute a particular person,” he wrote, “but rather in understanding whether the Department is faithfully adhering to whistleblower protection laws, and, if not, whether Congress must consider legislative reforms.”
Following a party-line vote on June 22, the Republican-led committee released the redacted documents, revealing the individuals’ claims of witnessing privileged treatment for Biden, Justice Department interference, and retaliation for voicing their concerns.
“The preferential treatment Hunter Biden received would never have been granted to ordinary Americans,” said Smith, charging that the Justice Department intervened to protect the president’s son.
The president’s son also agreed to enter a pretrial diversion program to avoid conviction for his unlawful possession of a firearm while using or addicted to a controlled substance. The felony offense typically carries a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison.
Likewise, on Truth Social, former President Donald Trump likened the deal to a “traffic ticket,” adding, “Our system is BROKEN!”
President Joe Biden, on the other hand, has remained tight-lipped on the situation.