School choice or public schools? Across the nation, the great debate is heating up once again. In the end, it all boils down to how each side believes taxpayer dollars should be spent.
As a high school social studies teacher currently serving as the president of the Ohio Education Association (OEA), Scott DiMauro advocates for public schools.
“We have no concerns and fully understand that private schools have been part of the fabric of American education for centuries, or the idea that parents have options and can choose to send their kids to public schools, private schools, or home school their children,” Mr. DiMauro told The Epoch Times. “The issue and the real debate is how public taxpayer dollars are used to subsidize those options.”
The OEA—a National Education Association affiliate, headquartered in Columbus, Ohio—has 120,000 members and comprises more than 700 local affiliates and district associations across the state. Founded in 1847, the OEA is one of the oldest teachers unions in the United States.
“As public school educators, we advocate for full and fair funding of our public school system,” Mr. DiMauro said. “What we don’t believe is appropriate is that taxpayer dollars be used to subsidize private school options.”
Vouchers are the alternative option provided to parents in Ohio. Mr. DiMauro said there are “two big issues” with vouchers.
“One, as the state spends more money on private school vouchers, it is essentially subsidizing the cost of private school tuition,” he explained.
The second issue, he said, is that “public schools are held to very high standards of accountability.”
There are detailed curriculum requirements, and students must pass all five parts of the Ohio graduation tests to graduate. Every private school must submit an annual report to parents and the Ohio Department of Education proving that the school meets minimum standards.
“Part of the debate,” Mr. DiMauro said, “has been this notion that if you subsidize private education, that’s going to create competition, but there is absolutely no evidence that suggests that you see school improvement as a result of subsidizing private schools through voucher programs.”
Mr. DiMauro also suggested that “private school vouchers have the impact of making school segregation worse” by exacerbating “white flight” and racial disparities.
“I’m not saying it’s the intent, but I think there’s an impact that private schools exacerbate inequities,” Mr. DiMauro said.
In an interview with The Epoch Times, Ms. Mainor said the decision was motivated by the Democrats’ opposition to school choice.
Her district, which includes a large portion of Atlanta, is divided by Interstate 75/85, she explained.
On one side of the proverbial track is the “high socioeconomic group,” comprising business owners and college graduates. On the other side is “a very low socioeconomic group” with “low education attainment and high unemployment.”
“The schools on the higher socioeconomic side are not failing, but they are overcrowded,” she said. “They are overcrowded because we have parents from the other side of the highway using someone else’s address so their child can go to a better-performing school.”
She said that if the people she represents can’t read and can’t perform simple math, they will most likely be part of those 300 million.
“Where do we go if children can’t read who become adults who can’t read who have children who can’t read?” Ms. Mainor posited, adding that unemployment “leads to dire situations.”
“Dire situations lead to high crime, high mortality rates, and a straight K–12-to-prison pipeline,” she said.
Ms. Weingarten was speaking with Seth Harris, senior fellow at the Burnes Center for Social Change at Northeastern University, on Sept. 12.
“I was kind of gobsmacked when I was talking to Southern Poverty Law Center, and they showed me the same words: ‘choice,’ ‘parental rights,’ and attempts to divide parents versus teachers, and at that point, it was white parents versus other parents. But it’s the same kind of words,” she said.
“The Betsy DeVos wing of the school privatization movement is methodically working its plan” to “starve public schools of the funds they need to succeed,” Ms. Weingarten asserted. “It’s an extremist scheme by a very vocal minority of Americans, and it’s not what parents and the public want.”
During the interview with Mr. Harris, Ms. Weingarten again insisted that only a “small group of extremists” back school choice and parental rights policies over public schools.
Ms. Mainor said Democrats oppose school choice “because they’re in lockstep with the unions,” and Ms. Weingarten “gets paid a lot of money to make what she says sound right.”
“The more teachers there are, the more money unions receive,” she said.
“I represent 60,000 people,” Ms. Mainor said. “The only leaders in the community are all Democrats.”
“The school board is all Democrats. The superintendent is a Democrat. Everyone is a Democrat, and that’s how it is in most black communities,” she said. “So show me how Republicans are the reason why public schools are failing.”
Ms. Mainor said that chronically low academic performance in Georgia’s schools led to the “cheating scandal.”