U.S. President Joe Biden on Thursday called China’s economy a “ticking time bomb,” a remark that drew protests from Chinese authorities as his administration renews engagement with Beijing.
“They have got some problems. That’s not good because when bad folks have problems, they do bad things,” said President Biden, according to a pool reporter.
“China is a ticking time bomb,” he said.
“China was growing at 8 percent a year to maintain growth. Now close to 2 percent a year,” he claimed.
However, the president misstated the country’s growth rate.
President Biden told donors that he did not want to hurt China and wanted a rational relationship with the country.
Foreign ministry spokesperson Mao Ning said President Biden’s remarks “seriously violated China’s political dignity.”
“They’re an open political provocation,” Ms. Mao told a press conference in June.
The Biden administration is seeking to reduce tensions between Beijing and Washington as bilateral ties worsened over issues, from Beijing’s unfair trade practices to its aggression against Taiwan.
“I expect to be meeting with President Xi sometime in the future, in the near term, and I don’t think it’s had any real consequence,” said President Biden.
Indeed, in the following three weeks, the Chinese leadership welcomed two other senior administration officials separately.
A fourth senior U.S. official could be visiting China soon. According to a July 13 report from Xinhua, China’s commerce ministry was “in communication” with the U.S. side about a possible China visit by Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo.
Media reports indicated Ms. Raimondo will travel to Beijing later this month.
“China has been playing hard to get for the last several months, and they would not talk. Now they relented and agreed to talk with high-level American cabinet members on matters that are vital to both nations’ economies,” said Miles Yu, a senior fellow and director of the China Center at Hudson Institute.
“They need the West much more than the West needs China. So they’re being a little bit more realistic this time.”
The interview came as U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen traveled to Beijing to meet with Chinese Premier Li Qiang, who has recently been tasked to revive China’s COVID lockdown-battered economy by Mr. Xi.