A woman who was left severely paralyzed after suffering a stroke has been able to communicate again thanks to ground-breaking technology using artificial intelligence (AI) developed by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), and the University of California (UC), Berkeley.
Ann Johnson, a 47-year-old former high school math teacher in Canada, has been severely paralyzed since suffering a brainstem stroke at the age of 30.
Although years of physical therapy allowed Ms. Johnson to move her facial muscles enough to laugh or cry, she has still never regained the ability to speak.
Now, 18 years later, Ms. Johnson can communicate through a digital avatar powered by artificial intelligence (AI), thanks to researchers at UCSF and UC Berkeley.
Led by UCSF neurosurgeon Edward Chang, the researchers developed implantable technology—known as a brain-computer interface, which translates brain signals into modulated speech and facial expressions—allowing Ms. Johnson to speak and convey emotion via a talking digital avatar that used a copy of her voice—a recording made during a 15-minute toast she gave at her wedding 20 years ago, The New York Times reported.
Those electrodes intercept the brain signals that would typically help Ms. Johnson move the muscles in her lips, tongue, jaw, and larynx, as well as her face.
A cable plugged into a port installed in her head connects the electrodes to a bank of computers, which use AI algorithms to recognize unique brain signals for speech and translate them into sentences that are spoken through a digital avatar on a nearby screen.
Ms. Johnson worked with researchers to train the system’s AI algorithm, which involved repeating different phrases from a 1,024-word conversational vocabulary constantly until the computer recognized the brain activity patterns associated with all the basic sounds of speech.
The digital avatar even uses animated facial expressions, including opening and closing the jaw and smiling, that make it all the more realistic.
The researchers also hope the technology will help provide a solution to other patients who are unable to communicate.
“Our goal is to restore a full, embodied way of communicating, which is really the most natural way for us to talk with others,” said Mr. Chang, who led the study at UCSF. ”These advancements bring us much closer to making this a real solution for patients,” he added.
The 40-year-old man, who was paralyzed in his legs and partially paralyzed in his arms after a cycling accident 12 years ago damaged his spinal cord, was told he would never walk again.