But just how far is the regime willing to go to spy on and undermine the United States?
The espionage efforts of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), which rules China as a single-party state, go much broader and deeper than mere sensor balloons. Such efforts include human intelligence gathering, transnational repression schemes, cybertheft and hacking, intellectual property theft, and even the harvesting of Americans’ genetic material.
The CCP’s HUMINT network permeates U.S. society at many levels, with many such efforts being overseen directly by the regime’s top intelligence agency, the Ministry of State Security (MSS).
TikTok, a popular short video app owned by Chinese tech giant ByteDance, is perhaps the most telling example of this.
The national security risks posed by Chinese social media apps also apply to other tech firms, including telecommunications. In recent years, Washington has cracked down on Chinese telecom firms, including Huawei and ZTE, for this reason.
The mass DNA collection performed by companies such as genome-sequencing firm BGI could be used in myriad ways against the United States, according to congressional reports.
These include allowing the CCP to blackmail individuals with the threat of exposing embarrassing medical information and even using data on health conditions such as allergies to conduct targeted biological attacks against diplomats, politicians, high-ranking federal officials, and military leaders.
Importantly, while BGI is a private company, it has definite ties to the CCP. In January 2018, China’s state-run media Xinhua reported that Du Yutao, the Party secretary of BGI’s research institute, spoke of the importance of learning and putting into action of “the spirit behind the 19th National Congress,” referring to a twice-in-a-decade CCP meeting.
By recruiting experts and scholars from abroad to study or work in China, such talent programs aim to develop a new generation of researchers in areas crucial for China’s technological and military development.
The most telling case of this phenomenon concerns the Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL), the United States’ most advanced nuclear research center.
Many of the researchers who worked at the LANL came to the United States to be trained and work in areas critical to national security and were involved in the CCP’s talent programs. For example, at least 59 of those who worked at the LANL and subsequently returned to China to do research were part of the regime’s “Thousand Talents Program” or its youth branch.
One report on the issue found that “[Chinese] talent programs are ever-expanding recruitment networks” with which the regime continuously usurps knowledge from the United States.
Chinese investors purchased more than $6 billion in U.S. real estate between March 2021 and March 2022, according to the National Association of Realtors, making it the largest foreign buyer in terms of dollars spent.