It’s no secret that the U.S. military is struggling to find people who are fit for service these days. Maintaining health and wellness among its existing members has also become a challenge.
In addition, research shows that government food subsidies are a significant contributing factor.
As the largest federal nutrition assistance program in the United States, SNAP counts thousands of U.S. military members among its beneficiaries.
And that’s because, unlike some U.S. nutrition subsidy programs, SNAP covers items such as cookies, soda, candy, and ice cream.
So participants aren’t only eating higher quantities of heavily processed items, but also have access to a lot of junk food.
Although food assistance is critical for more than 41 million Americans, nutritionists argue that a helping hand shouldn’t be at the expense of someone’s health. And it really comes down to cost. It’s simply cheaper to eat junk than it is to eat healthier food.
“We need a system that reduces the cost of healthy, unprocessed foods and makes it easier for people to afford and access them,” Dana Ellis Hunnes, senior clinical dietitian at UCLA Medical Center, told The Epoch Times.
Hunnes has a passion for nutrition, which she shares in her book “Recipe for Survival.” She noted that ultra-processed food is the cornerstone of federal food assistance, which can fuel high obesity rates.
“Ideally, we should be offering significantly more fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts, seeds, legumes, and farmers’ market vouchers than ... processed cereals, dairy products, and other packaged ultra-processed foods,” she said.
“People who are using these programs want healthier foods and deserve healthier foods, not cheap surplus commodities.”
But choosing to eat healthily comes with a bigger price tag. That’s especially true as food inflation has hit American wallets hard over the past 12 months.
Research from Utah State University shows that healthy dietary guideline examples from MyPlate would cost a family of four upward of $14,400 annually. By comparison, the average middle-income family spends an estimated $6,224 on food each year. Low-income families spend even less, at around $3,862 per year.
“Some of the challenges we have are obesity, we have pre-existing medical conditions, we have behavioral health problems, we have criminality, people with felonies, and we have drug use,” Lt. Gen. Xavier Brunson told The Spokesman-Review of Spokane, Washington.
Brunson called it a “condition,” saying that “this is not an Army problem, so nationally what we have to look at is what’s going on with our youth.”
She said high obesity rates have narrowed the recruiting pool considerably, coupled with “falling intelligence and education standards.” She also noted that, along with reduced resiliency and flexibility, the military is less prepared to meet “asymmetrical or conventional challenges.”
Police departments struggle with similar challenges, according to Tsukerman.
“We have also seen the impact of poor fitness and obesity among police forces in urban areas,” she said. “Unfit officers facing high-risk scenarios are less likely to perform well at their jobs ... the same can become a dangerous trend on the battlefield.”
CDC statistics also show that 19 percent of active-duty service members suffered from obesity in 2020, which is up from 16 percent in 2015.
Tsukerman cautioned that lowering the bar within the U.S. military could set a dangerous precedent.
“While it is true that technical developments such as the use of UAV [unmanned aerial vehicles] and AI [artificial intelligence] have displaced some human participation in the field, much of the combat still relies on conventional human performance,” she said. “Therefore, national security directly depends on human forces being astute, situationally aware, and agile.”
Hunnes said it comes down to getting people on track with proper nutrition right out of the gate. She said healthy breakfast and lunch options for children and better nutrition for pregnant mothers is a good start to tackle obesity issues among today’s youth.