Australia’s new submarines could potentially see the U.S. and UK work together to design and build a brand-new submarine class altogether.
The UK’s Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said the decision was ultimately up to the Australian government, noting it would also be “collaborative.”
“It’s a joint endeavour. Whether that is the sharing of technology, and the understanding of how to do it, the sharing of the build, or the sharing of the design,” he said after a meeting between Australian and UK ministers on Jan. 2.
“The Australian government’s getting exactly to the position where it knows what it wants,” he said.
“I’m pretty confident that it will be a tri-nation project.”
The UK is currently developing the successor to its Astute-class nuclear submarine.
The comments from Wallace come after Australian Defence Minister Richard Marles noted that Australia did not underestimate the challenge that was involved in arming itself with the capability but that the government was confident that the trilateral partners would be able to meet the challenges.
“AUKUS is central to that,” Marles said.
“I think what you'll see is when we ultimately do announce the optimal pathway that we’ve been working on with both the United States and the United Kingdom, that what it really is, is a genuinely trilateral effort to see both the UK and the U.S. provide Australia with a nuclear-powered submarine capability.”
The nuclear-submarine industry requires not only the right facilities but a highly trained workforce numbering in the tens of thousands. The U.S. and UK governments have pledged to assist Australia with training and upskilling its industry.
However, Marles has downplayed any concerns about delays.
“We’re confident that what we will be announcing in the coming weeks is a pathway that will be able to be delivered by all partners on time, and obviously, we are talking about a program that is not measured in weeks or months but is actually going to take place over years and decades,” he told ABC Radio’s AM on Feb. 1.
The minister is now jet-setting to the United States to hold further discussions on the program.
The Australian Broadcasting Corporation has also reported that Prime Minister Anthony Albanese may also travel to the United States in March to unveil the final plan alongside U.S. President Joe Biden and UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak.
The UK’s Minister of State for the Indo-Pacific, Anne-Marie Trevalyan said Australia’s submarines would likely be used to patrol the Indo-Pacific and secure trade routes.
“Free and fair-trade work if the waterways are clear and safe,” she told reporters. “A lot of the Royal Navy’s job for several hundred years was chasing pirates to allow those ships that want to move goods around to do so.
“China is deeply concerned and firmly opposed to it,” Mao said.
According to China watchers, Beijing is genuinely worried about AUKUS, with mainland scholars and analysts’ responding to AUKUS with genuine concern and fear.