American technology firms will increasingly be forced to decide whether their interests are in line with U.S. national security or with maximizing their profits in Chinese markets, according to homeland and cybersecurity analyst Paul Rosenzweig.
In an interview with NTD’s “Capitol Report” on Monday, Mr. Rosenzweig said U.S. policy is increasingly forcing a “decoupling” between the United States and the People’s Republic of China (PRC) in an effort to reduce security risks. Mr. Rosenzweig, who served as the deputy assistant secretary for policy in the Department of Homeland Security and who continues to consult and lecture on cybersecurity and technology, said U.S. firms will have to increasingly reassess their business models to match evolving U.S.-China relations.
“Increasingly, I think American companies are going to see that they have to pick a flag, so to speak, choose a side, not because of principle, but because the law is going to increasingly require them to decouple and most American tech companies have yet to really come to grips with that. They haven’t yet done a risk assessment of what they should be doing,” he said. “They don’t understand yet how deeply embedded they are in China and how much it’s going to hurt when some event compels them to decouple.”
Mr. Rosenzweig said continued U.S. economic sanctions could drive a wedge between U.S. firms and their Chinese partners, as could growing concerns about China’s human rights record or a military conflict between China and Taiwan.
Taiwan governs itself as an independent nation, but the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) regards the island as a part of its territory and has increasingly called for “reunification” with Taiwan, including through military force. The United States maintains a relatively ambiguous policy on relations between China and Taiwan, but has regularly approved arms transfers to Taiwan and could intervene on Taiwan’s behalf if it is attacked.
As the new regulation went into effect, the U.S. technology company NVIDIA began marketing its A800 computer chip as an alternative for Chinese buyers that offered powerful computing abilities while staying below the 600GBps data transfer rate threshold.
Mr. Rosenzweig welcomed the tightened export restrictions but raised concerns about other ways China can continue to expand its AI technology even without U.S. technology exports.
“We’re at the start of a process right now. I think that the Biden administration’s decision to further restrict exports is a good thing,” Mr. Rosenzweig told NTD News. “One of the as yet unexamined questions is the nature of American technology companies’ interactions in China already, which doesn’t involve the export of technology, but involves cooperative ventures with them.”
Mr. Rosenzweig said the value of the Biden administration’s policies will come down to how well they are implemented and enforced.