Australia’s national security chiefs have been asked to make a determination on whether Australia should ban the social media app TikTok from all government agencies.
The move comes after the Biden Administration order on Feb. 27 that all federal agencies had just 30 days to wipe TikTok from all government devices in a bid to keep U.S. data safe.
This follows similar moves made by Canada and the European Union.
He added that the federal government had not been told by the security chiefs to change the current setting.
“We'll take the advice of our national security agencies,” he said, noting that, to date, this had not been the advice.
“We’re obviously aware of the announcement the Americans made overnight. No doubt, our colleagues in the agencies will be considering that and factoring that into their own thinking. But the advice to us hasn’t yet changed.”
Multiple government agencies in Australia have already banned Tiktok, including the CSIRO, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Home Affairs, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Industry, Education, Employment and Finance departments, and the Australian Public Service Commission.
A spokesperson for the CSIRO told The Epoch Times the agency regularly reviews the identity of appropriate security controls to reduce the likelihood of a compromise.
“The CSIRO works with other relevant government agencies to continually review and identify appropriate security controls to reduce the likelihood of a compromise to our information, services, and assets,” the spokesperson said.
“It is positive to see the EU take this step to protect government users from TikTok,” Paterson said.
“Australia cannot fall behind and must take the same action—as well as protect the millions of citizens who use the app now widely acknowledged as a national security risk.”
“It is good to see more and more government departments and agencies recognise the cyber security risks caused by apps like TikTok,” Paterson said. "But millions of Australian users remain unprotected from an app which is closely connected to the Chinese Communist Party.
“Today, OMB is releasing guidance on the implementation of the ‘No TikTok on Government Devices Act,’ requiring agencies to cease using the app except in select circumstances,” the agency wrote.
According to the memo, all federal agencies must prohibit internet traffic from reaching the Chinese-owned company as part of the purge and must address any use of TikTok by IT vendors through contracts within 90 days. Further, they must include a new prohibition on TikTok in all new solicitations within 120 days.
Tiktok has been mired in controversy due to concerns about its ties with parent company ByteDance, based in Beijing.