Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese has described his visit to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) as “important,” especially during a time of “global uncertainty.”
“We recognise that the creation of an economic forum for economies in our region is so important,” Mr. Albanese told reporters on Nov. 15.
“And all of these economies are our major trading partners, are here.
“One in four of Australian jobs depends upon our trade and an enormous proportion of that trade is represented here at APEC.”
Mr. Albanese said he will discuss with member states free and open rules-based trade in the region, supply chain resilience, and sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
The prime minister will also discuss environmental and sustainability issues with member economies, along with how member economies will achieve net zero.
The United States is also urging member states to reduce emissions in the transport sector, including cleaner fuels in the aviation and maritime industries, while adopting zero-emission vehicles.
“Engagement with APEC partners is critical for seizing the opportunities to create the jobs of the future, to expand our economic growth, and to take advantage of our location—on the doorstep of the fastest growing region in human history.”
This follows criticisms from opposition leader Peter Dutton, who said Mr. Albanese should have cancelled his trip to address local security concerns, namely the release of immigration detainees following a recent high court ruling.
Mr. Dutton added that the prime minister should instead convene a meeting with premiers and chief ministers to discuss growing anti-Semitism and civil unrest in Australia, amid the escalating conflict in Gaza.
During their high-stakes meeting, Mr. Biden and Mr. Xi addressed a set of contentious issues, including military communication, fentanyl, and Taiwan.
Mr. Albanese said the meeting between the two leaders would help provide regional stability and avoid “real conflict” as both leaders move towards reviving regular military dialogue.
Mr. Albanese recently met Mr. Biden and Mr. Xi in Washington and Beijing, and said the high-stakes meeting was a step forward.
“We need to put in place those mechanisms that are important guardrails that were in place when the two world superpowers were the United States and the Soviet Union,” Mr. Albanese said.
“We need guardrails to make sure that we don’t have misunderstandings or miscalculations that could lead to real issues and real conflict.”
Aside from getting a Chinese commitment to stop the outflow of fentanyl precursors, President Biden said he also raised issues such as U.S. citizens barred from leaving China, human rights, China’s “corrective activities” in the South China Sea, and peace and stability around the Taiwan Strait.
They also exchanged views on Ukraine and the Gaza conflict, the president said.
The trial will make Australia one of the first governments in the world to deploy generative AI services.
This comes after Microsoft announced a $5 billion (US$3.2 billion) investment to expand its hyperscale cloud computing and AI infrastructure over the next two years.
The Digital Transformation Agency (DTA) will evaluate the trial, with Microsoft providing training, onboarding, and implementation assistance with participating agencies.
Mr. Albanese said that, in partnership with Microsoft, Australia is “charting a course for the future of public service.”
“One where generative AI is used responsibly to enhance the work of the APS in delivering for Australians without compromising on safety.”
Mr. Albanese plans to meet with leaders from Thailand, Canada, Papua New Guinea, Japan and Indonesia, including China and the United States.
“I look forward forging new relationships in Australia’s national interest but also renewing relationships and cementing them as well,” Mr. Albanese said.