The Five Eyes nations’ security chiefs have warned about China’s “sophisticated” theft of intellectual property, with FBI Director Christopher Wray calling China the “biggest threat” to the countries’ innovation.
Mr. Wray gathered leaders from the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance—the United States, the UK, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand—and business leaders on Oct. 17 to discuss China’s threat.
The summit, held in California’s Silicon Valley, marked their first ever joint public gathering, according to a press release from the FBI.
At the summit, Mr. Wray said the Chinese Communist Party (CCP)—which rules China as a one-party state—was stealing information on artificial intelligence, quantum computing, biometrics, and robotics, among others.
Mr. Wray said the FBI has seen about a “1,300 percent increase” in investigations over the past several years pertaining “to attempts to steal intellectual property or other secrets by some form of the Chinese government, or some arm of the Chinese government.”
Mr. Burgess said the CCP engaged “in the most sustained, scaled, and sophisticated theft of intellectual property and expertise in human history,” and that the extent of the theft was “unprecedented.”
He said ASIO had thwarted a plot to infiltrate an Australian research institution last month. The case involved a visiting academic professor who, as he noted, had been recruited by Chinese intelligence.
“Their spymaster gave them money and a shopping list of intelligence requirements and sent them to Australia. The academic even set his Australian Ph.D. students’ research assignments in line with his intelligence requirements.
“The Chinese Communist Party has passed legislation to force any person of Chinese origin anywhere in the world to support their intelligence services,” Mr. Vigneault said at the summit.
“It means they have a way to coerce people here in our countries to essentially tell them, to give them the secrets,” he added.
“As a global leader in research and innovation, Canada is a prime target for the PRC’s [People’s Republic of China’s] intangible technology transfer efforts,” the report reads.
“China targets research through legal, illegal and other unregulated means in order to augment its science and technology sector.”