Several months back Patrick Hrdlicka, a professor of chemistry at the University of Idaho, tried an experiment. He asked the world’s most famous artificial intelligence tool, ChatGPT, to produce a sample diversity statement.
As part of the application packages for professorial appointments at Canadian universities, these diversity statements ask candidates to affirm the principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in higher education. Those keenly committed to DEI regard the statements as indispensable. Cynics (including some of the same people) view them as make-work projects evocative of moral purity tests.
Given its reputation for producing passable prose, it’s not surprising that ChatGPT delivered a highly readable diversity document capturing all the familiar catchphrases: diversity is key to success, innovation depends on hearing every voice, DEI is a way of life, and more.
A supporter of DEI initiatives himself, Professor Hrdlicka’s brief blog post on the matter concludes by wondering whether new ways of measuring DEI commitment may be necessary in an AI-saturated world. But he stops well short of asking whether the easy reproduction of DEI talking points indicates a growing lack of nuance in the very discourse increasingly dominating the university landscape.
But while the debate over AI use in higher education has practical urgency, it often misses the extent to which AI is, more fundamentally, a symptom of well-established trends in Canadian education: the largely unreflective accommodation of new technologies (even when they demonstrably undermine habits of learning) and growing bureaucratic newspeak shaping the culture of campus conversation.
More worrisomely, perhaps, current technological mediations induce (almost imperceptibly) patterns of scanning that easily become a normative mode of attending not just to online content, but to books and even to people. Such habits are familiar to anyone who has scrolled on an iPhone or surfed the web, their attention neither wholly present nor entirely absent.