The always-entertaining filmmaker Christopher Nolan delivered the finest effort of his esteemed career with this biographical drama about J. Robert Oppenheimer (Cillian Murphy), the man behind the creation of the atomic bomb. Hired by the U.S. government to cull together various scientists for the project, Oppenheimer was ultimately and unfairly pegged as the fall guy in the aftermath of World War II.
First-time feature director Cord Jefferson’s adaptation of the Percival Everett novel “Erasure” is a stinging satire that slyly points out the hypocritical double standard of the woke left. Jeffrey Wright stars as Monk, a black novelist whose books don’t sell well because they are deemed “not Black enough.” Under a pseudonym, Monk writes a trashy “Black book” that, much to his chagrin, becomes a best-seller.
For her first film as a writer and director, Australian actress Frances O’Connor (“A.I. Artificial Intelligence,” “Mansfield Park”) aimed for the fences and reached them with this gothic period piece about the life of “Wuthering Heights” novelist Emily Brontë (Emma Mackey).
Director David Fincher and his “Se7en” screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker reunite for this satirical action thriller starring Michael Fassbender as the titular character: an unnamed, highly paid assassin. After failing to take out his mark in Paris, the Killer must make a quick exit and dispose of any and all connections between him and his botched effort.
In a year littered with beyond-impressive biographical documentaries, “It Ain’t Over” not only covers the professional life of baseball player Yogi Berra, but also his humble origins and why, because of his small stature and non-conventional “everyman” appearance, he was discounted and dismissed by the press, the MLB brass, and a great segment of the public.
Since being diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease over three decades ago, actor Michael J. Fox has been the premier advocate and fundraising figure in the search for a cure. Director Davis Guggenheim weaves carefully executed dramatic recreations, live-action TV and film clips, and outtake footage to brilliant effect while also allowing Mr. Fox to discuss the pitfalls of living with the disease without a hint of self-pity.
The tagline from the movie’s poster, “The Greatest Mystery in Sports History,” is a bit of a stretch, but not by much. Retiring via fax at the peak of his career, former Detroit Lions star running back Barry Sanders was everything most pro athletes are not: humble, soften-spoken, and a full-time team player.