Two siblings from the University of California–Irvine have teamed up in creating their own artificial intelligence (AI) “chatbot” for use in the medical field, which they say, will be able to potentially employ empathy in its computing and operations.
The pair will present their work next month at the United Nations (UN) AI for Good 2023 Global Summit in Geneva, Switzerland.
Both Karishma and her brother Pratyush graduated from the university last year with degrees in cognitive science and computer science, respectively.
According to the siblings, their technology is geared to employ “compassion” in its interactions with patients struggling with mental health issues.
She was honored again for her AI work in 2018, when she was named “Young Innovator to Watch” at the Consumer Electronics Show —an annual conference for tech innovators and developers—for her work in integrating emojis and artificial intelligence in tablets and other devices to help paralyzed patients communicate.
During her time at UC Irvine, Karishma earned the Donald A. Strauss Foundation’s public service scholarship through which she expanded her work in building “empathy” in clinical settings by founding the “Patient Project,” an on-campus organization that promotes “conversational care,” where loved ones and patients are given emotional support through talking in hospital and care center waiting rooms in an effort to improve their mental health. The program remains as an active campus organization following her graduation.
She and her brother eventually decided to collaborate on a conversational artificial intelligence bot after taking a computational biology class together.
“I found it was really great to be in the same classroom with him,” Karishma said in a June 12 statement from the school. “I think that illustrates the importance of a similar dynamic with artificial intelligence as well.”
Pratyush expressed similar sentiments in combining his skillset with his sister’s when building a “compassionate” AI bot, as well as the future of such technology.
“I think that right now we’re seeing a trend of … [artificial intelligence] language models being made available to the public,” he said in the school statement. “I hope that empathy and compassion will be included as major aspects behind [how such technology is made].”
Pratyush earned the Barry Goldwater Research Scholarship at UC Irvine for his work in producing “empathy-based artificial intelligence,” and graduated last year at just 18.
He is currently at Stanford University on a scholarship to complete his master’s in computer science, specializing in artificial intelligence.
Both siblings also continue to work on their empathy-based artificial intelligence chatbot alongside Pramod Khargonekar, UC Irvine’s vice chancellor for research, and Deepan Muthirayan, a postdoctoral scholar in electrical engineering and computer science.