The report, with substantial portions redacted, didn’t say which midterm races the CCP had targeted. In one case, China “covertly [denigrated]” an unnamed Senate candidate online using “inauthentic accounts.” The report was released by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI).
Since 2020, senior CCP leaders have issued “broad directives to intensify efforts” to influence U.S. policies and public opinion in China’s favor, according to the report.
“We assess that these directives gave PRC influence actors more freedom to operate ahead of the midterms than [ahead of] the presidential election in 2020, probably because PRC officials believed that Beijing was under less scrutiny during the midterms and because they did not expect the current Administration to retaliate as severely as they feared in 2020,” the report reads, referring to China’s official name, the People’s Republic of China.
The CCP had also repeatedly ordered its officials to focus their influence operations on Congress, convinced that the U.S. legislative branch “is a locus of anti-China activity.”
“In 2021, Beijing identified specific members of Congress to punish for anti-China views and to reward for their perceived support for China,” the report reads.
The CCP influence operations—designed to “portray the U.S. democratic model as chaotic, ineffective, and unrepresentative”—frequently directed messaging to “highlight U.S. division on social issues, such as abortion and gun control,” according to the report.
Nonetheless, the intelligence agencies discovered that Chinese cyber actors had “scanned more than 100 U.S. state and national political party domains.”
The report names the Chinese-owned social media app TikTok, pointing out how English-language messaging efforts on the app “had increased focus on U.S. politicians and U.S. domestic issues” in about August 2022. These issues included abortion, mass shootings, and immigration.
The report also looked into efforts by Russia, Iran, and Cuba to meddle in the 2022 U.S. midterm elections.
Russia and its proxies tried to “denigrate” the Democratic Party largely because of its support for Ukraine.
“Moscow incorporated themes designed to weaken U.S. support for Ukraine into its propaganda, highlighting how election influence operations are a subset of broader influence activity,” the report states.
Iran’s activities reflected its intention to “fuel distrust in U.S. political institutions, increase social tension, and advocate for candidates and policy positions that are aligned with Tehran’s foreign policy interests,” according to the report.
“We assess that most foreign actors now appear largely focused on amplifying authentic U.S. public narratives to try to influence electoral outcomes, increase mistrust in U.S. election processes, and stoke sociopolitical divisions,” the report reads.