Britons shouldn’t be asked to do too much to slash carbon emissions, former Prime Minister Tony Blair has said.
Mr. Blair, one of the leading advocates on reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions worldwide, said nothing the UK does would affect climate change because the UK’s emissions are only a fraction of those released in China.
Authors of the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report claimed that GHG emissions have “unequivocally caused global warming,” which they say would lead to disastrous consequences such as crop failure, water shortage, and societal instability.
The UK is one of the first countries to mandate net-zero emissions, requiring Britons to reach zero net GHG emissions by 2050.
While insisting that climate change is “the single biggest global challenge” which the UK should “play its part” in tackling, he said reducing the UK’s emissions wouldn’t make any difference.
“Don’t ask us to do a huge amount when frankly whatever we do in Britain is not really going to impact climate change,” he said, arguing that the UK should work on new technologies and financing energy transitions in developing countries.
China’s per capita GHG emissions were around 54 percent higher than those in the UK.
China, the number one country in terms of GHG emissions, was responsible for 13.7 megatonnes of GHG, or a quarter of global emissions.
It’s double the amount of GHG emissions in Europe, and 131 percent higher than the United States, which came in second.
China’s GHG emissions have also been on a upward trajectory while the UK has slashed its emissions.
The ULEZ expansion, set to be launched in a month, means drivers of higher-emission vehicles will have to pay £12.50 each day to drive around in suburban London.
Both the Conservatives and Labour believe the policy led to a Tory win in Uxbridge.
In his victory speech, new Conservative MP Steve Tuckwell said London Mayor Sadiq Khan’s “damaging and costly ULEZ policy” cost Labour the election.
Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer also told broadcasters that he doesn’t think there’s “any doubt” ULEZ was to blame for the defeat.
Following the by-election, some politicians warned party leaders that net-zero policies may cost them the next general election, while others urged the parties to stick to their green pledges.