A China expert is warning MPs about security and ethical concerns regarding Canadian universities and institutions engaging in research partnerships with China, underscoring the potential transfer of sensitive technologies to the Chinese military.
“The risk for Canada is that our university scientists could be partnering with civilian scientists or engineers at any university in China, and not be aware that their research is going out the back door to the PLA [the People’s Liberation Army],” said Margaret McCuaig-Johnston, a senior fellow at the Graduate School of Public and International Affairs of the University of Ottawa.
“As I’ve said many times, the PLA are not our friends.”
She noted that the Chinese regime has prioritized the integration of military and civilian technology development since 2014, with Chinese leader Xi Jinping personally overseeing this strategy through his roles in the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) Central Military Commission and the Central Commission for Military-Civil Fusion Development.
“This is not just a Canadian problem or a U.S. problem but one of open democracies because China’s system is not the same as ours,” Ms. Puglisi said. “Regardless of their personal views, Chinese scientists, businesspeople, and officials interacting with our universities or companies have to respond to the PRC government or security services if they’re asked for information or data.”
She said that existing policies and laws are “insufficient to address the level of influence the Chinese Communist Party exerts in our society, especially in academia.”
Apart from monitoring Chinese institutions, Ms. McCuaig-Johnston highlighted concerns regarding individual scientists who may ostensibly be working for an independent institution while actually serving the Chinese regime.
“Chinese scientists have sometimes listed a different institution to obscure where they are really from,” she said.
Ms. McCuaig-Johnston acknowledged the importance of upholding academic freedom and allowing researchers and institutions to collaborate without hindrance. However, she stressed ethical concerns should be considered when Canadian researchers collaborate with Chinese military and surveillance technology companies.
She noted companies like SenseTime, Tencent, Alibaba, iFlytek, and Huawei have worked with the Chinese military, including the design and sale of equipment used to support the CCP’s repression of several minority groups such as the Uyghurs.