Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, is threatening to pull news feeds on its platforms for California residents if the state legislature passes the Journalism Preservation Act.
In a statement posted on Twitter on May 31, Meta expressed its opposition to the proposal AB 886, which requires big tech companies to pay news outlets a journalism usage fee, is made into law.
The proposed law is aimed at reversing a decline in California’s local news sector.
“It is egregious that one of the wealthiest companies in the world would rather silence journalists than face regulation,” Wicks said.
“The bill fails to recognize that publishers and broadcasters put their content on our platform themselves and that substantial consolidation in California’s local news industry came over 15 years ago, well before Facebook was widely used.”
The News Media Alliance, a trade group representing newspaper publishers, pressured Congress to insert the measure into the Omnibus spending bill in December, arguing that “local papers cannot afford to endure several more years of Big Tech’s use and abuse, and time to take action is dwindling. If Congress does not act soon, we risk allowing social media to become America’s de facto local newspaper.”
“Local news is facing an existential crisis, from ad revenues plummeting and newsrooms across the country closing to artificial intelligence tools taking content,” Klobuchar said.
“To preserve strong, independent journalism, news organizations must be able to negotiate on a level playing field with the online platforms that dominate news distribution and digital advertising.”
Over two dozen groups, including the American Civil Liberties Union, Public Knowledge, and the Computer & Communications Industry Association, opposed the Congressional bill, arguing that it would “create an ill-advised antitrust exemption for publishers and broadcasters” and that it does not ensure that the “funds gained through negotiation or arbitration will even be paid to journalists.”
Last month, Meta and Twitter won a fight over the upholding of Section 230, in Twitter v. Taamneh, after the United States Supreme Court avoided a ruling on the case.