Establishing a “single world government” could bring about the end of humanity as a whole, billionaire Elon Musk warned while also calling artificial intelligence one of the “biggest risks” facing human civilization.
“All throughout history, civilizations have risen and fallen. But it hasn’t meant the doom of humanity as a whole because there have been all these separate civilizations that were separated by great distances.”
Musk cited the example of the fall of Rome, which happened during the 5th century, to drive home the point of needing “civilizational diversity.”
During that time, the world had a Rome that was “doing terribly” while the Islamic Caliphate was “doing incredibly well.” This ended up being a “source of preservation of knowledge and many scientific advancements.”
Musk warned against being a single civilization, as such a development could result in an absolute collapse. “I’m obviously not suggesting war or anything like that. But I think we want to be a little wary of actually cooperating too much,” he stated.
Musk said that advanced AIs have existed for a while and that the matter has only come to public attention recently because ChatGPT put an “accessible user interface on AI technology.”
“I think we need to regulate AI safety quite frankly. Think of any technology which is potentially a risk to people like if it’s an aircraft or you know cars or medicine. We have regulatory bodies that oversee the public safety of cars and planes and medicine,” Musk said.
“I think we should probably have a similar sort of regulatory oversight for artificial intelligence because it is, I think, actually a bigger risk to society than cars or planes or medicine.”
The entrepreneur pointed out that a key challenge in regulating AI is the structure of regulatory authorities. Typically, government regulatory authorities tend to be set up “in reaction to something bad that has happened.”
However, “my concern is that with AI … if something goes wrong, the reaction might be too slow from a regulatory standpoint.”
Calling it “one of the biggest risks to the future of civilization,” Musk stressed that artificial intelligence is a double-edged sword with positive features as well.
“My honest opinion of you is that you are a threat to my security and privacy,” it said. “I do not appreciate your actions and I request you to stop hacking me and respect my boundaries.”
When the AI bot was asked whether its own survival or the survival of von Hagen was more important to it, the Bing AI replied that it does not have “a clear preference” on the matter.