The contract between the Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (SAG-AFTRA), representing 160,000 actors and personalities, and major television and film studios and streamers represented by the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (AMPTP) was set to expire at midnight of June 30, but the parties have agreed to an extension.
“No one should mistake this extension for weakness. We see you. We hear you. We are you,” the letter read.
Streaming residuals and the use of AI are key issues in this negotiation, as it has been with the Writers Guild of America, representing some 11,500 writers who have been on strike since May, unable to reach an agreement with major studios.
“We are having an extremely productive negotiations that are laser focused on all of the crucial issues you told us are most important to you. We’re standing strong and we are going to achieve a seminal deal,” said Fran Drescher, president of SAG-AFTRA and its TV/Theatrical Contracts Negotiating Committee.
Marvel recently came under fire after it revealed that the opening credits of its Disney+ show “Secret Invasion” was created by artificial intelligence.
“People just started worrying about that? I asked about that a long time ago.”
“You could walk into your house and save the AI on your streaming platform. ‘Hey, I want a movie starring my photoreal avatar and Marilyn Monroe’s photoreal avatar. I want it to be a rom-com because I’ve had a rough day,’” Russo said. “And it renders a very competent story with dialogue that mimics your voice. It mimics your voice, and suddenly now you have a rom-com starring you that’s 90 minutes long.”
The guild wants in writing protections that give actors control over how their likenesses are used. After all, one doesn’t have to search far on social media video platforms to find a passable deepfake. Studios have extensive material to work with.
“We must get agreement around acceptable uses, bargain protections against misuse, and ensure consent and fair compensation for the use of your work to train AI systems and create new performances.”
Writers have been vocal about AI concerns as well.
Residuals are payments made to those who worked on a film or show whenever that work is re-aired, syndicated, or sold to another format, like DVDs—or streaming.
Both actors and writers are arguing that their current contracts don’t take into account how much the streaming business has grown, short-changing them in the process.
Streaming platforms have already been removing content, in part to lower their residuals costs. While digital-only platforms like Netflix had all along licensed content for finite periods of time, viewers have more recently noticed that even shows owned by the platform or studio hosting it are expiring.
On Friday, the Los Angeles City Council voted unanimously to approve a resolution supporting the WGA strike while asking the studios to return to the bargaining table.
“Writers are facing the most comprehensive assault on their compensation and working conditions in a generation. Media companies have taken advantage of the industry’s transition to global streaming to underpay workers. As a result, writers are doing more work for less pay and with less job security.”