The more human beings learn about the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in creative endeavors like film and music, the more it seems to gain resistance.
In the case of Disney, criticism grew after a video of the show’s intro went viral on social media, generating conversations about the future of artists in the industry that has since come to a standstill due to the ongoing Writers Guild of America (WGA) strike.
“We would talk to them about ideas and themes and words, and then the computer would go off and do something. And then we could change it a little bit by using words, and it would change.” Selim said. He described the opening intro “explorative and inevitable, and exciting, and different.”
While the series is said to mark the first time that the technology has been employed in mainstream television, not everyone is as enthusiastic as Selim as was witnessed by a slew of negative comments on Twitter.
“Marvel/Disney have infinite money yet used AI for the Secret Invasion opening credits. A slap in the face to literally every artist Disney has ever worked with & something that overshadows the hard work everyone did on this show,” he tweeted.
In the interview, McCartney said AI “has great uses,” noting that while making what would be the last Beatles record, they worked on and just finished a demo that John (Lennon) had.
“So, when we came to make what will be the last Beatles record, it was a demo that John had that we worked on and we just finished it up — it‘ll be released this year,” said McCartney, noting that they were able to get Lennon’s voice “pure” through AI so that they could then mix the record as they normally would. “It gives you some, sort of, leeway. So, there’s a good side to it and then, a scary side. And, we’ll just have to see where that leads.”
“Nothing has been artificially created,” he said. “Been great to see such an exciting response to our forthcoming Beatles project. No one is more excited than us to be sharing something with you later in the year.”
The uses and misuses of AI continue to be debated.
Earlier this year, Hollywood star Keanu Reeves called deepfake digital face edits “scary,” and confirmed that his film contracts ban digital edits to his acting.