Many among the first to see the all-new production explained how long they'd waited to see such a performance, describing it as a reminder and message of hope—a blessing, magical, and a timely depiction of an ongoing “spiritual battle.”
Its mission, according to its website, is more than a performance, “it’s a revival of the beauty and goodness of China before communism.”
They finally had the chance on Dec. 26, and Mr. Iandoli felt it came at just the right time.
Social media personality Cameron Hamilton, who works in artificial intelligence and has 2 million followers on Instagram, found inspiration in the production’s artistry, which he said he'd be incorporating into his videos. But more than that, he felt “at peace.”
“It was just a great blessing to be here, to be able to experience it. ... You can just see when everyone came together—it was just a beautiful thing to see all this talent in one space,” Mr. Hamilton said at the Atlanta Symphony Hall on Dec. 26. “Everything from the dancing, to the musical orchestra, the solo acts—I mean I was blown away.”
“I think it’s beautiful,” he said. “The dancers are clearly very trained at a very high standard. There’s a great sense of discipline as well, which I think is marvelous.”
A Shen Yun performance includes some 20 vignettes, incorporating a unique, patented backdrop, and an orchestra blending East and West with dance.
Leo Lee, a professor of English, attended the same performance and said that as the curtain went up to reveal the opening scene of Shen Yun, he was moved to tears.
“I don’t know [why], but if you believe in spirituality, it’s something that connected with me. As the curtain opened up, I just cried,” he said after seeing Shen Yun on Dec. 26.
“The dancers came together. They performed a show for a bunch of people in the audience who came together and on top of that, it unified us as an audience behind the message of divinity. The show performance, the work that had to go into it, the appreciation for it all,” he said.
“[The song] talked about heaven, the Creator, and that one day we will all be back in heaven, that we’ll be persecuted before that, and we have a battle to fight here on earth until we go back into heaven,” he said. “There were figures in the production that may have resembled divine beings.
“I think it’s saying that there’s a spiritual battle that we have to be aware of; most people are not aware of it. We can ignore it, but we’re still going to be part of it; and also, great things can come through suffering. We can’t avoid it necessarily, but through our suffering, we can be honed and purified and made more ready for what’s to come.”