Today, facing an ever-growing influence and subversion operation by China’s communist regime targeting countries like Canada, what key tools can be developed to help ward off activities that are clearly against Canada’s interests yet our security apparatus and justice system seem helpless to counter?
The answer is more complex when it involves a sophisticated state actor with boundless resources dedicated to exploiting gaps in democratic countries. Former intelligence and law enforcement officials and other experts suggest a number of reforms and new approaches, with some emphasizing that there needs to be political will to make real change happen.
This examination should be beyond looking at just isolated issues such as unofficial Chinese police stations or some cases of election interference, he said, but should be looking at the big picture. This includes, an interpreter quoted him as saying in French, the “asymmetrical hybrid warfare conducted by China through diplomatic, economic, military, defence, cyber, social, and education efforts.”
First, he says, there should be a review—and reform where needed—of “the criminal laws that are negatively impacting our ability to fight foreign threats.”
“Engage in a review and study contemporary, highly experienced investigators involved in global operations,” Chrustie, now a senior partner with the Critical Risk Team consulting firm, said in an interview.
An area in need of major reform, he said, are the laws related to disclosure of evidence in court cases. Currently, Canada’s allies can’t freely share intelligence with Canadian law enforcement out of concern that the information could be publicly exposed in court if a criminal proceeding eventuates as part of the case, Chrustie explained.
“Our disclosure laws preclude us from working with the international community in an effective and efficient way,” he says.
The 1991 landmark case of R v. Stinchcombe requires that the Crown release all evidence as part of court proceedings.
“You can’t tell the FBI, ‘give us that information and we can protect it,’ because any smart FBI agent would know that the [Canadian] police and prosecutors have no power to protect the information [in a court case].”
Another important initiative he recommends is the creation of a foreign agent registry in Canada. Under such legislation, which already exists in the United States and Australia, individuals and organizations working to advance the interests of a foreign entity would have to declare their activities to the government to improve transparency.
Another initiative Chrustie recommends is the creation of tools such as intelligence data banks and artificial intelligence systems for use by businesses, universities, and other organizations so that they are better equipped to deal with the threat of foreign influence. This could include, as an example, tools that Canadian organizations can use to run background checks on organizations they have dealings with.
The proposed legislation was a recommendation from the public inquiry into money laundering in the province, where police insiders have long lamented that gangs and triads, often with Chinese Communist Party (CCP) links, are getting away with criminal acts.
As the pending legislation is based on laws governing civil cases, no criminal conviction is required for the confiscation of assets by the state if the suspects fail to prove that they acquired the assets legitimately.
Scott McGregor, a former RCMP intelligence adviser and former military intelligence operator, agrees that bolstering these civil forfeiture provisions would be helpful, but says they would have to be upheld by the courts. Already, civil rights organizations have challenged the proposed legislation citing charter rights.
When it comes to criminal laws, McGregor, who was involved in investigating money laundering cases in B.C., says updates are needed to the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act. He also says there should be a change in police-prosecution structure in some jurisdictions.
One item involves introducing a criminal law specifically on foreign interference, covering activities that would be illegal and the penalties they would incur, he said.
“All past and present governments have been part of the problem, not the solution. All have been warned [about CCP interference] and ignored [it],” he was quoted as saying by an interpreter translating from French.
“For this new body to report to a minister who repeats the same pattern of failure and political interference–this office must be independent, separate from CSIS and the RCMP, and it needs to report directly to the House of Commons.”
Juneau-Katsuya also recommended that election candidates and political staffers and volunteers be required to sign forms declaring that they are not under the influence of a foreign entity, and that those who are found to have been deceptive should face criminal procedures. As well, he said, foreigners should be forbidden from voting in party nomination contests.
“These offences easily are captured by the Security of Information Act,” he told MPs.
Stanton said that in the last three decades, foreign interference has “eclipsed classical espionage” as the primary national security threat for Canada, and that China is the “A Team” when it comes to this.
“Why risk stealing another state’s secrets when you can influence and manipulate the targeted countries’ policy-makers?” he asked. “When you can influence and manipulate the targeted countries’ policy-makers, you can get close to what we consider the soft underbelly of the state through our democratic institutions.”
Stanton said the government should avoid delaying the creation of the foreign agent registration law, and that there is no need to hold extensive public consultations.
He also said the government shouldn’t just earmark money for the RCMP without a strategy.
“Every time we’ve had a crisis, every time we’ve had an incident, that’s what the government’s done: ‘We‘ll throw money at the RCMP, we’ll say you folks, you’ve got to sort that out.’ And I don’t think that’s really an appropriate response,” he said.
Stanton also said Canada needs a new national security policy, one that considers all new threats that have emerged, such as challenges posed with new AI tools.
“We have a history of government on both sides, not just the Liberals, but the Conservatives, choosing to ignore the importance of this,” he said in an interview.
He argues against the idea of creating a new organization to deal with the issue of foreign interference.
“Creating a whole new organization, which takes time and resources, won’t be effective for a whole long period of time,” he said. “Secondly, it’s just waving your hands and saying, ‘yeah, we’re doing something,’ when in fact I’m not sure they’re doing anything different.”
Instead, he says, that money should be spent on CSIS and the RCMP in an effective way so that they have the resources they need to do a thorough job.
Another important issue, Gurski says, is making it mandatory for government officials to receive CSIS and RCMP briefings, and to ensure that information reaches the highest levels of the government, so that the prime minister can’t deny having been briefed about it.
Washington has also created export rules to prevent efforts by entities in China to acquire U.S. technology that could aid the Chinese military, and barred members of the CCP or any other totalitarian entity from immigrating to the country.
These include changing the Criminal Code to make foreign interference an offence, modernizing the CSIS Act to allow the agency to share more information on foreign interference activities, and revisiting the Security of Information Act, the article says. It added that, regarding the last item, the sources were unable to provide more details on what the proposed revisions are.