Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant that has been barred from 5G infrastructure in Canada due to national security risks, has provided multimillion-dollar funding to an Artificial Intelligence (AI) researcher for establishing a new research institution in Alberta.
“The challenge with interested media this days is that the typical AI research story is deeply driven by geo-political paranoia, so I’m not sure how to convey the high road intent of Openmind’s research mandate?” he said in an email statement on Nov. 24.
He further stated, “The reality of security concerns is that the [United States] is one of the nations most prone to spying, and is hypocritically critical of anyone’s involvement with anyone from China, individuals, or organizations. Canadian politicians find it easy to capitulate, even without any understanding.”
“There has never been any documented case of Huawei being a security concern; in fact, just the opposite, the USA has broken into Huawei computers.”
Mr. Goebel didn’t respond to a follow-up email from The Epoch Times inquiring about these connections between Huawei and the PLA.
Mr. Chong rejected the notion that Openmind’s commitment to open-source research and forgoing intellectual property rights means it doesn’t benefit Huawei and, consequently, the People’s Republic of China (PRC). Mr. Sutton told the Globe that the institute will not pursue intellectual property rights, and said that Huawei made a similar commitment.
“Just because this new Alberta-based institute won’t file any patents [and] will keep its research ‘open source’ doesn’t mean this arrangement doesn’t benefit Huawei - [and] in turn the PRC,” Mr. Chong wrote.
Additionally, Mr. Chong pointed out that partnership with Chinese entities could increase challenges for Canada in working with its democratic allies, such as AUKUS, a security agreement between Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States aimed at developing advanced capabilities between the three countries against China.
In addition to looking into the issue involving NUDT, the motion asked the committee to study intellectual property transfers to Huawei. Conservative MP Dan Mazier, who introduced the motion, expressed concerns about Canadian institutions’ continued partnership with Huawei, despite government prohibition of its participating in the 5G network development.