Linda Yaccarino, the CEO of X—previously known as Twitter—has explained why the social media platform recently dropped its iconic blue bird logo and changed its name.
“Even when we announced that I was joining the company, I was joining the company to partner with Elon to transform Twitter into X, the everything app,” Ms. Yaccarino told CNBC.
“The rebrand represented really a liberation from Twitter,” she said of the company’s decision to adopt the single stylized letter “X.”
“A liberation that allowed us to evolve past a legacy mindset and thinking. And to reimagine how everyone, how everyone on Spaces who’s listening, everybody who’s watching around the world. It’s going to change how we congregate, how we entertain, how we transact all in one platform,” Ms. Yaccarino continued.
The CEO also stressed that a global town square that is “fueled by free expression” will be at the center of the app and will be a place “where the public gathers in real-time.”
This will all run under one seamless interface, she said, before noting the numerous changes that have taken place since Mr. Musk’s $44 billion acquisition of Twitter last year.
The platform also plans to enable payments between users and friends and creators, Ms. Yaccarino, the former head of advertising at NBC Universal, told CNBC.
“If you stay Twitter, or you stay whatever your previous brand is, change tends to be only incremental. And you get graded by a legacy report card,” Ms. Yaccarino said. “And at X we think about what’s possible. Not the incremental change of what can’t be done. And if you think about the velocity of product changes, infrastructure improvements that have happened over the past 10 months, it kind of answers the question of ‘why rebrand?’” she said.
Mr. Musk, meanwhile, has vowed in the coming months that X will add “comprehensive communications” and grant users the ability to “conduct your entire financial world” as the platform begins to expand and becomes a combination of messaging, social networking, and payment apps on one site.
Reports emerged earlier this month that, going forward, X’s product and engineering team will report to Mr. Musk while Ms. Yaccarino will oversee all other divisions, including human resources, legal, finance, sales, and operations.
“Elon is focused on product design, he leads a team of extraordinary engineers and focuses on new technology,” Ms. Yaccarino said of the latest leadership changes. “Elon is working on accelerating the rebrand and working on the future and I’m responsible for the rest. Running the company, from partnerships to legal to sales to finance,” she said.