Chinese Premier Li Qiang’s first diplomatic trip overseas took him to Europe last week, where he sought ways to de-escalate the Chinese Communist Party’s trade confrontation with liberal democracies.
EU diplomats say it may take months of debate before the strategy becomes a concrete policy. Still, it is an essential first step in preventing economic objectives from undermining the EU’s security.
Li has been the premier of the CCP’s State Council in China after he took office in March this year. He was in Germany for the talks on June 20 for the seventh round of Sino-German government consultations before heading to France for this first official visit and to attend French President Emmanuel Macron’s New Global Financing Pact June 22 to 23.
Chinese state media said that Li’s choice of Europe for his first overseas trip shows that China attaches great importance to developing relations with Europe and regards boosting China-Europe relations “as a priority for CCP diplomacy.”
But the EU doesn’t show signs of sharing that same enthusiasm for embracing cooperation with the CCP.
Li Yuanhua, a former professor at Beijing’s Capital Normal University, told The Epoch Times on June 21 that the EU’s economic security strategy document is a response to three years of the CCP’s draconian zero-COVID policies threatening the security of the global industrial supply chain.
“EU has recognized the weakness of a supply chain [reliant on China] for Europe,” Li Yuanhua said.
The European Commission considers the export and sharing of emerging technologies, such as AI and quantum computers, a potential security risk, as it could allow some hostile countries to use these technologies for their military purposes.
The strategy ensures that the supply chain for security-sensitive products is closed to hostile nations, designed to stop the leaks of European proprietary technologies in AI, chip manufacturing, and biotechnology.
The EU should also exclude potential rival countries and their companies from crucial infrastructure, such as ports and pipelines, and ban EU companies from exporting high-tech military applications to potential rivals, it states.
“In some cases, technology leakage risks strengthening the military/intelligence capabilities of those that could use them to undermine peace and security, especially for dual-use technologies such as Quantum, Advanced Semiconductors or Artificial Intelligence,” it reads.
Such words seem to imply a semi-threatening underlying implication, reminding Europe and the world that China still plays a vital role in the international supply chain.
But in fact, the reality facing China is the opposite, Li Yuanhua said, as “China’s economy is on the verge of collapse and desperately needs foreign capital injections and overseas orders, [it is under] tremendous economic pressure, so the CCP is eager to rescue its collapsing economy by strengthening trade cooperation with Europe” after losing the support of the United States.
Li Yuanhua said that another veiled mission for China’s premier—in addition to subtly warning the EU that withdrawing trade with China would be bad for world peace—was “lobbying Europe in the diplomatic arena to move closer to the CCP to counterbalance the United States.”
The CCP has been aware that the United States is bound to impose sanctions on it, as “no matter which party is in power in the United States, public opinion and its global strategy require it to restrict and balance the expansion of the CCP—this despotic regime that harms the people.”
Thus, the CCP can only pin its hopes on aligning with European powers to resist U.S. sanctions, Li Yuanhua said.
Meanwhile, Chen Weijan believes the EU’s steadily formed stance of de-risking concerning the CCP won’t be easily changed, especially by a visit from “a Chinese communist leader or some superficially low-profile rhetoric.”