Construction of a Chinese-funded naval base in Ream, Cambodia, is nearly complete and includes a pier large enough to accommodate an aircraft carrier, according to satellite imagery released by a U.S.-based geospatial intelligence firm on July 24.
Satellite imagery shows that the development of the Chinese military naval station in Cambodia has progressed rapidly since August 2021, the firm, BlackSky, stated.
It would be China’s second known foreign naval base; the first is in the East African country of Djibouti.
The rapid pace of development makes it difficult to deny “the intentional velocity behind China’s overseas basing initiatives,” according to Craig Singleton, a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies.
“Cambodia’s receptivity to hosting China’s second overseas naval port increases Beijing’s strategic ability to project military power into the Indian Ocean,” he said in a statement from BlackSky.
Analysts also observed the development of a 38,000-square-meter (409,000-square-foot) artificial peninsula on the southern shore of the base and architecturally distinct Cambodian and Chinese military buildings, including a purported headquarters facility, barracks, and fuel storage areas.
Mr. Singleton highlighted the similarity between the Ream pier and China’s military pier in Djibouti, as both structures are of the same size, with ample capacity to dock an aircraft carrier.
“There is a near-exact similarity between an angled deep-water pier located on the western shore of the Ream base and another military pier at the People’s Liberation Army [PLA] Support in Djibouti,” he said.
“Both main piers are 363 meters long [1,190 feet long] and large enough to support any ship in China’s naval arsenal, including the new 300-meter-long Type 003 Fujian aircraft carrier.”
Cambodia has confirmed that its naval base in Ream is “near completion.” However, Defense Ministry spokesman Chhum Socheat refuted claims that the base is intended for use by the Chinese military.
Cambodian Defense Minister Tea Banh has said that China funded the modernization of the Ream base, although the upgrade is for the benefit of Cambodia’s national defense, not the Chinese military.
“Ream naval base is small, therefore we need to upgrade our base to protect our nation, territory, and sovereignty,” Mr. Tea said during a groundbreaking event at the naval base on June 9, 2022.