OpenAI’s artificial intelligence system GPT-4 has shown “sparks of artificial general intelligence (AGI),” displaying abilities in a wide range of knowledge domains with a performance that is almost at the “human-level,” according to a paper by Microsoft Research.
“Given the breadth and depth of GPT-4’s capabilities, we believe that it could reasonably be viewed as an early (yet still incomplete) version of an artificial general intelligence (AGI) system.”
GPT-4 was found to be able to code at a “very high level” both in terms of writing code from instructions as well as understanding existing code. Though the AI is “not perfect in coding yet” since it generates semantically incorrect or syntactically invalid code, GPT-4 is able to improve the code by responding to human feedback.
When it came to math, GPT-4 was able to express mathematical concepts and solve related problems. The AI was able to apply quantitative reasoning when faced with problems that required mathematical thinking and model building. However, GPT-4 is still “quite far from the level of experts” as it does not have the ability to conduct mathematical research, the study admitted.
A key aspect of intelligence is interactivity, which is basically the ability of an intelligent entity to communicate and respond to feedback from other entities, environments, and tools. “Interactivity requires an agent to comprehend complex ideas, learn quickly, and learn from experience, and thus it is closely tied to our definition of intelligence.”
GPT-4 was able to use tools like APIs or search engines to overcome some of its limitations. It employed tools with “minimal instruction” and generated output “appropriately.” In one search result containing potentially conflicting information, the AI was still able to infer the right answer.
For example, GPT-4 was able to combine art and programming by producing a code that generated random images in the style of painter Kandinsky. Then, in the literary style of Shakespeare, it produced proof of the fact that there are an infinite amount of prime numbers.
The AI combined knowledge of history and physics by writing a letter supporting an electron as a potential U.S. presidential candidate. The letter was to be written by Mahatma Gandhi and addressed to his wife.
GPT-4 also coded a program that accepts an individual’s age, sex, weight, height, and blood test results to indicate whether the person is at higher risk of diabetes.
In the field of artificial intelligence, an AI equipped with the Theory of Mind qualities will be better able to understand the humans it interacts with.
In one test, GPT-4 was found to infer the mental states of multiple characters as well as discern misunderstandings and miscommunication.
GPT-4 outperformed two other AI models in “both basic and realistic scenarios that require reasoning about the mental states of others, and in proposing actions for cooperation towards common goals in social situations.”
“The authors point out in the paper [that] GPT-4 does not satisfy what I would consider the only compelling notion of generally intelligent; the ability to generalize from limited information,” he said. “GPT-4 just doesn’t satisfy that or any other definition of AGI I would consider meaningful.”
“It is hard to see how you can prevent the bad actors from using it for bad things,” Hinton told The New York Times in an interview.
Hinton warned that competition between big tech companies regarding AI advancements could spiral out of control resulting in widespread damages. The way AI is developing and its unprecedented ability to create content like images and text will get to a point where an average individual will not be able to distinguish “what is true anymore.”
Going a bit further, AI will replace humans for many tasks, and be able to create fully autonomous weapons.
“The idea that this stuff could actually get smarter than people—a few people believed that,” Hinton said. “But most people thought it was way off. And I thought it was way off. I thought it was 30 to 50 years or even longer away. Obviously, I no longer think that.”
Meanwhile, Google’s parent company Alphabet is combining two of its AI research units—DeepMind and Google Brain—in a bid to “significantly accelerate” the company’s progress in the field.
“Combining all this talent into one focused team, backed by the computational resources of Google, will significantly accelerate our progress in AI,” said Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai.