The Senate Committee on Rules and Administration held a hearing on Sept. 27 on the potential effects of artificial intelligence (AI) on the future of the United States’ electoral system.
Among those testifying at the hearing, “AI and the Future of Our Elections,” were Ari Cohn, free speech counsel at TechFreedom; Minnesota Secretary of State Steve Simon; Trevor Potter, a former commissioner and chairman of the Federal Election Commission and founder and president of Campaign Legal Center; and Maya Wiley, the president and CEO of The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights.
Ms. Wiley, who previously served as counsel to former New York Mayor Bill de Blasio, claimed that AI could be used by foreign governments to interfere in elections by targeting certain communities.
“Congress must use its oversight powers and require the platforms to provide more data and solutions on voting/election disinformation and AI,” Ms. Wiley said. “Disinformation, sometimes driven intentionally by foreign governments in our election cycles, often targets black and Latino communities and poses significant risks to our society.”
Mr. Simon, a Democrat who helped spearhead efforts in Minnesota to give convicted felons the right to vote, similarly warned that AI could amplify threats.
“Artificial intelligence is not a threat to American democracy in and of itself, but it is an emerging and powerful amplifier of existing threats,” he said. “All of us who touch the election process must be watchful and proactive—especially as the 2024 presidential contest approaches.”
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dySYAHLI_K0
These sentiments were echoed by Mr. Potter, who argued that AI could increase the risk of supposed disinformation and other forms of political deception.
“The concerns raised by this technology are real and growing, and I strongly urge this committee to approach these challenges without regard for partisanship or political gain. If left unregulated, AI will increase the risk of misinformation, deceptive advertisements, and distrust for candidates and voters on both sides of the aisle.
Mr. Cohn, whose nonprofit TechFreedom opposes censorship and regulation of the tech industry, warned that regulations risk subverting the democratic process rather than protecting it.
“Concern for our democratic processes and institutions is well-placed. But reflexive legislation prompted by fear of the next technological boogeyman will not safeguard our democratic values,” Mr. Cohn said. “Instead, intrusions on the free and unfettered political discourse that has been the lifeblood of our democracy will ultimately subvert it.”