Lawmakers are hoping the bipartisan support for creating the House Select Committee on the Strategic Competition between the United States and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) will translate into solutions that a majority of Americans and the rest of the world will support.
Last month, the House voted 365–65 in favor of forming the new committee—one of the few issues that has won strong bipartisan support in the now Republican-controlled House. The 65 votes against the new committee came from Democrats.
“This thing could have devolved into a clown show. But McCarthy and Jeffries, I think, gave us a really good shot of being effective,” Johnson said.
“The Select Committee on the CCP will require the best and the brightest our nation has to offer, and the team Speaker McCarthy has assembled fits the bill,” Gallagher said.
Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-Ill.), the ranking Democrat on the new committee, told The Hill that he believes the panel could come together on issues like advancing U.S. capabilities in areas of technological competition with China, like artificial intelligence, cyber capabilities and quantum computing. Krishnamoorthi said the committee could also focus on changes to the workforce and supply chains that will lead to less reliance on China.
Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.), another member of the new committee, cautioned against the panel becoming entirely focused on opposing China rather than also finding opportunities for cooperation.
McCarthy called on the then-Democratic majority to participate in the Task Force.
“There was one moment in time they said yes, a few months ago they said no,” McCarthy said at the time. “I’d say there was no more important time now to join with us together to work as one nation, as we face these challenges. We cannot wait any longer. The stakes are too high to sit idly by.”
“I have lots of concerns about how [Republicans] demagogue the issue and promote conspiracy theories and xenophobia,” McGovern said.
“It’s really clear that this is just a committee that would further embolden anti-Asian rhetoric and hate and put lives at risk.”