Linda Yaccarino, Twitter’s new CEO, has posted her first tweet following her appointment, saying she is “committed” to the company’s future even as many on the platform remain concerned that Yaccarino will seek to limit free speech.
According to tech billionaire Elon Musk, who acquired the platform last year, Yaccarino will “focus primarily on business operations while I focus on product design and new technology.” Yaccarino joined NBCUniversal back in 2011 where she oversaw a 2,000-member team. She left NBC for Twitter. Prior to NBC, she worked with Turner Broadcasting System for 15 years.
However, there has been significant backlash about Musk’s decision to appoint Yaccarino as Twitter CEO.
“She was also thrilled to spend $100,000,000 on social justice initiatives while at NBC, and forwarded government authoritarian propaganda that the way back to a normal life was to ‘wear your mask!’ No doubt she’ll bring in advertising revenue in the short term, but she’s a long-term mistake,” he said.
Yaccarino asked whether Twitter was open to a “feedback loop” from advertisers that would help them be more excited to invest more money. This would include allowing advertisers to provide feedback on “product development, ad safety, [and] content moderation.”
Musk dismissed the suggestion. “It’s totally cool to say that you want to have your advertising appear in certain places in Twitter and not in other places. But it is not cool to try to say what Twitter will do. And if that means losing advertising dollars, we lose it. But freedom of speech is paramount,” he stated.
Yaccarino then asked whether Musk planned on reinstating Twitter’s “influence council,” which involved regular meetings between the social media platform and marketing executives from its major advertisers.
In November, WEF chair Klaus Schwab called the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), which is one of the worst human rights offenders in the world, a “role model” for other nations.
At the WEF, Yaccarino is a member of the organization’s Media, Entertainment, and Culture Industry Governors Steering Committee. The purpose of the committee is to “define the industry agenda and drive change” in media and entertainment to enable a “more informed, united and inclusive society.”