BlackRock is closing a China-focused offshore fund amid congressional scrutiny over its alleged role in directing U.S. dollars to blacklisted Chinese firms.
In a recent letter to shareholders, BlackRock Global Funds Chairwoman Denise Voss said the world’s largest money manager will close the China Flexible Equity Fund over a “lack of shareholder interest” and the investment cost to keep the fund running, which she noted is “not in the best interests of shareholders.”
BlackRock intends to liquidate all assets under the fund and redeem any outstanding shares by Nov. 7. Existing shareholders have the options to switch their investments into another fund, sell back their shares ahead of the liquidation date, or receive automatic payments for the shares when the fund closes down.
The two firms together facilitated investment into more than 60 Chinese entities hit with U.S. sanctions over national security or human rights issues, the lawmakers said, noting that their review was far from comprehensive and thus the actual number of benefited Chinese companies is likely higher. Across five funds, BlackRock has invested more than $429 million in such Chinese firms against U.S. interests, according to the House committee.
In a response to the congressional probe, BlackRock told The Epoch Times that it “complies with all applicable U.S. government laws” regarding “all investments in China and markets around the world” and noted that it is one of 16 asset managers offering U.S. index funds that invest in Chinese companies.
The firm didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment regarding the China fund closure.
But across the board, there are growing signs of wariness from U.S. investors toward the Chinese market. The long-hoped-for economic recovery after the regime lifted its stringent COVID-19 policies hasn’t happened. Instead, the country faces a slowing economy, with a sharp drop in trade, millions of young Chinese people struggling to find jobs, a housing crisis, and growing tensions with the United States.
Foreign investors have dumped Chinese stocks at a record pace in August as China’s economy continues to decline. Data from Hong Kong’s Stock Connect trading scheme show that sales by offshore traders on the Chinese equity market reached about $11 billion over three weeks since Aug. 7.