The recent 22nd anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks shouldn’t obscure the fact that even more devastating attacks are being leveled against the United States.
Coincidentally—or not—this dissolution of the United States and its sovereignty, as well as the rest of the world as we know it, is directly linked to the COVID-19 pandemic and the vaccinations that it supposedly spawned. The order of those events is suspect, to say the least.
But why the big push for digital identities?
The American people don’t need a digital ID based on COVID-19 vaccination status.
The vaccinations have proven to be less effective and arguably more dangerous than the SARS-CoV-2 virus.
For that matter, does the rest of the world need a COVID-19 digital certificate, and what really amounts to a digital tracking device? More to the point, why should any nation cede control over its respective COVID-19 policies within its own borders to the U.N.?
As noted, the EU already has such a digital certificate in place that was imposed during the COVID-19 pandemic. Ms. von der Leyen proposed a global digital ID at the G20 Summit in India on Sept. 10, noting that “51 countries on four continents adopted it for free.”
Recall, for example, that “stakeholder capitalism” isn’t capitalism at all in the classic definition. Instead, it’s communist social policies being applied to companies and firms of all sizes that dictate who they hire, who they do business with, what they produce, and how. Each company is ranked with an environmental, social, and governance (ESG) score, that is, for all intents and purposes, a social credit score system similar to what is in place in communist China. Businesses with low ESG rankings will be subject to government action.
In another exercise of such distortion, Ms. von der Leyen praised Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general of the WHO, for its adoption of the COVID-19 digital certificate, saying that “the WHO uses it as a global standard to facilitate mobility in times of health threats.”
As Ms. von der Leyen describes it, the power and effectiveness of this digital infrastructure will depend on harnessing the potential of AI.
In summation, the rights accorded to us from and by the U.S. Constitution will go away and be replaced by global governance by the likes of the U.N., the WHO, and other global institutions. We will be governed—controlled and kept in line—through mandated vaccinations, boosters, and digital passports, as well as digital currency via an AI-powered worldwide digital infrastructure run by a cabal of unelected, unaccountable elites.