U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo admitted there were “legitimate concerns” about Chinese investments in the United States and insisted that the Biden administration “will not compromise” on China-related semiconductor restrictions.
“We have to be real about those concerns,” Ms. Raimondo said in an interview with CNN. “So to the extent that Chinese investors, buying farmland, buying U.S. businesses, erodes our national security, then we should stop it.” Though a certain amount of investment is good for commerce, the Biden administration is being “vigilant about not allowing Chinese investment in the U.S. that we think hurts our national security,” she added.
The administration has been criticized for undermining the semiconductor ban policy by giving some major firms “carve outs,” which are set to expire in October.
On this issue, Ms. Raimondo stated: “No one ever said we want to decouple from China as it relates to semiconductors. We ship billions of dollars of semiconductors every year to China that is good for the American economy and American businesses, and we will continue to do that. Those are chips that are readily available around the world.
“What we are going to do, and we will not compromise on, is preventing the sale of our most sophisticated, most powerful semiconductors to China, which China wants for its military,” she told CNN.
“No Commerce Secretary has been tougher than I on China. Almost a third of the companies from China on the Entity List have been put there under President Biden’s administration and my leadership of Commerce.”
On Aug. 30, Ms. Raimondo spoke at an event held by the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, where she urged U.S. businesses to keep investing in the communist nation even as some firms complained that the economy was becoming difficult to invest in.
Stoughton Trailers built a plant in the 1990s that made chassis and intermodal containers. However, the CCP’s subsidies to its domestic firms took away Stoughton Trailers’ business, according to Ron Jake, the company’s marketing manager.
The business recovered only after U.S. authorities imposed anti-dumping duties on Chinese manufacturers in 2021. “Once it was evident [that the duties] were going to go into place, that opened up this market for us, and it’s been gangbusters ever since,” Mr. Jake told The Epoch Times.
Mike Gallagher (R-Wis.), chair of the House Select Committee on the CCP, pointed out that American companies were being forced to compete with Chinese firms “that literally cannot go bankrupt or be underpriced.”
“In the case of Stoughton Trailers, their Chinese competitors were selling products into the [United States] for less than the cost of the raw materials used to produce them. That’s not competition. That is a disease.”
In October last year, a group of House Republicans wrote a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), raising concerns about foreign investment in American farmland and its “impact on national security, trade, and food security.”
The Chinese Ministry of Commerce said it had “serious concerns” about the order.
The executive order applies to microelectronics, artificial intelligence, quantum information technologies, and advanced computer chips.
In an interview with The Associated Press, J. Philip Ludvigson, a lawyer and former Treasury official, said that the order “really represents the start of a conversation between the U.S. government and industry regarding the details of the ultimate screening regime.”
Though the executive order only applies to a few technologies initially, “it explicitly provides for a future broadening to other sectors.”