The health of an estimated 14.4 million U.S. children and adolescents is affected by obesity and the trend is escalating. In 1963, five percent of children and adolescents were obese—by 2018 that number had jumped to 19 percent.
“A predictive epidemiologic model estimates that if 2017 obesity trends hold, 57 percent of children aged two to 19 years will have obesity by the time they are 35 years of age, in 2050,” writes the AAP in the new guidelines.
Obesity “puts children and adolescents at risk for serious short- and long-term adverse health outcomes later in life, including cardiovascular disease, including HTN [Hypertension]; dyslipidemia [abnormally elevated cholesterol or fats in the blood]; insulin resistance; T2DM [Type 2 diabetes mellitus]; and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease,” writes the AAP.
Obese youth may also have elevated systolic blood pressure, low-density lipoprotein, lower insulin sensitivity, and “poor psychological and emotional health, increased stress, depressive symptoms, and low self-esteem.”
The hard evidence for surgical care “ranges from speculative to nonexistent,” said Yoho. “The field is almost unstudied—we rely on tradition—we give surgeons near-complete therapeutic autonomy, and many of their net outcomes are in doubt.”
Dr. Bill Wilson, a family physician, and author of “Brain Drain,” told The Epoch Times, “The AAP guidelines are ill-conceived because they are clearly not science-based. If you don’t understand how to define and measure a condition [obesity], how can you possibly effectively treat it? The discussion should begin and end with solid science.”
The AAP guidelines downplay personal and parental responsibility for obesity as well as overeating. In some cases, the guidelines emphasize political elements over personal behaviors.
“All of a sudden, physicians are being told they can’t use the terms obese and overweight,” she said.
The guidelines do note, however, that “the AAP’s Bright Futures recommendations, which are based on systematic reviews and expert panels, offer prevention guidelines.”
The guidelines do link poor diet—particularly fast food—to weight gain, but claim “The association between sedentary behavior and adiposity [obesity] has been shown to range from small to inconsistent.” It is similarly ambivalent about snack foods.
“A recent systematic review of body fat and consumption of ultra-processed foods (defined as snacks, fast foods, junk foods, and convenience foods) in children and adolescents found a positive association, but noted that longer-term studies examining the association of these foods and obesity are needed.”
If obesity is defined more as a disease arising from systemic racism or inequality rather than an affliction resulting from poor-quality food and problematic lifestyles, it could become a boon to drugmakers and alleviates Big Food of its culpability.
There may be many reasons for childhood obesity but the impact of cheap high-calorie foods that are designed to be irresistible, can’t be overlooked—especially when they are the most readily available and advertised foods.