A recent study reveals hundreds of publications from Toronto universities collaborating with Chinese academic institutions linked to the military on sensitive research. A former intelligence officer said the ongoing partnerships signal an incentive gap in curbing such practices.
It noted that while collaborations with these Chinese military institutions may yield technological advancements, they also pose substantial security risks to Canadian institutions and national security as a whole. These concerns include potential intellectual property theft, the “dual-use” implications of transferring civilian technology for military purposes, and risks to reputation and academic independence.
LJ Eads, a former U.S. Air Force intelligence officer and co-author of the study, said there is increasing awareness in Canada and the United States about the necessity to disassociate from China.
“Everything that we’re talking about is this whole era of the great power competition. How do we start to disconnect [with China] where there’s dual-use technology implications or military technology implications?” Mr. Eads told The Epoch Times.
The Epoch Times reached out to both the University of Toronto and the Toronto Metropolitan University for comment, but didn’t hear back by press time.
However, the FAU study, which compiled Canadian research publications from August 2019 to August 2023, indicates persistent research collaborations in these areas between Canadian and Chinese institutions.
Mr. Eads also characterized these measures introduced by the Canadian government as a “band-aid fix,” emphasizing the absence of financial or penalty incentives for Canadian researchers to cease partnerships with China.
Mr. Eads said that by providing “outrageous” financial incentives to attract international talent, China is pursuing a long-term geopolitical strategy. In contrast, authorities in Canada and the United States are more focused on short-term military build-up, which he believes could lead to the West falling behind in the future.
“They’re thinking the long game in talent recruitment and future wars and future dominance. We’re thinking the six-month plan: this is how many fighters we need, the defence enterprise needs this much funding. We don’t think about talent and expertise like China’s doing right now,” he said.