Beijing released its draft “Measures to regulate generative AI,” which applies to the content and development of Chinese AI.
Experts see the priority of the regulations as highlighting censorship, which will only restrict the development of Chinese AI chatbots in the global competition in AI technology.
In the draft, the measures emphasized that “content should embody the socialist core values” and refrain from “subversion of state power, [or] overthrow of the socialist system.” Violators are subject to fines and criminal investigations.
However, while ensuring the security and fundamental rights of human life, the nation, and society are the priority for Western countries, totalitarian states focus on preventing the regime from being overthrown, Wang said.
To prevent the chatbot from giving answers that could potentially harm the authorities, she said, “The regime has to legitimize the supervision and suppression in the name of fraudulent information.”
The draft regulations emphasized that the content generated by generative AI should be “free of fraudulent information.”
The so-called “fraudulent information” specifically refers to information that does not conform to the ideology of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), said Jung-Chin Shen, an assistant professor at the School of Administrative Studies of Atkinson Faculty at York University in Toronto, Canada.
He stressed, “The regime’s censorship aims at controlling people’s ideology.”
Wang said the CCP is strengthening surveillance and filtering AI-generated answers with a significant language model. As a result, she said, “The United States is training AI to respond with smarter, intelligent, and complete answers, but the CCP is training AI to answer less [comprehensively], to avoid sensitive topics—completely the opposite direction of machine learning.”
The international market will gradually eliminate Chinese chatbots due to their inferior replies and functionality. She said, “It may have to rely on lower prices to attract [customers in] low-developing countries.”
The Biden administration’s new rule “will address the risk that the covered products may be used in, or diverted to, a ‘military end use’ or ‘military end user’ in China,” reported Reuters.
Shen said Nvidia designed an alternative chip, the A800, to replace the A100, but the calculation speed is far slower than A100. He said, “The CCP’s ChatBot is lagging behind the ChatGPT by two or three years.”
Chen also agreed that for the Chinese to develop high-end chips would take another three to five years. Stagnation or delay in developing leading AI tech or becoming an innovation center is very likely. She said, “The U.S. ban is effective [in this regard].”
As a result, the AI tech and application will likely evolve into “One earth, Two systems” under the CCP’s censorship and tech restrictions, she said.
Shen disagreed, however, “The technique is the same. It is the CCP’s censorship that forced the division of ChatBot. That’s what the Chinese tech companies adopted to comply with the censorship,” he said.
They both agreed that the regime’s censorship and the chip ban have restricted AI development in China.