China’s economy expanded at a slower-than-expected pace in the third quarter, driven by higher retail sales and growing industrial production. But as financial markets assess the situation in the world’s second-largest economy, some observers are questioning the reliability of the data coming out of Beijing.
However, a lot has changed in the last six years. Recent actions by the autocratic regime suggest that Beijing is willing to go to certain lengths to hide specific data that might shed a negative light on the Chinese economy.
In June, the youth unemployment rate climbed to a record high of 21.3 percent, highlighting the economic challenges facing the younger population. This prompted the regime to bury the numbers and halt the publication of this data.
“I believe that the data is not reliable. However, that’s all we have to go on,” Antonio Graceffo, an economist and China analyst, told The Epoch Times, adding that analysts can sift through proxies to determine the accuracy of the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) data.
For example, during the COVID-19 pandemic, China claimed factory activity levels were normal. Still, other data revealed there was no pollution and very little commutes emanating from those places, Mr. Graceffo, a contributor to the publication, added.
In recent years, there have been alternatives coming from the private sector.
On a quarter-over-quarter basis, the third-quarter GDP growth rate rose 1.3 percent, up from a downwardly revised 0.5 percent. This also came in slightly higher than economists’ expectations of 1 percent.
The better-than-expected headline number bolstered hopes that Beijing will achieve its annual target of 5.1 percent this year.
NBS researchers published a glowing statement championing the “strong leadership” of Chinese leader Xi Jinping and the rest of the CCP.
“All regions and departments accelerated efforts to foster a new development pattern, took solid steps to promote high-quality development, implemented macroeconomic policy regulation in a precise and robust way, and made efforts to expand domestic demand, boost confidence, and fend off risks,” the NBS said in a statement.
“As a result, the national economy sustained the momentum of recovery and improvement with positive factors amassing, as production and supply increased steadily, market demands continued to expand, employment and prices generally improved, and quality of development enhanced steadily.”
Retail sales rose at an annualized pace of 5.5 percent in September, representing the largest increase in retail trade since May.
At the same time, China is still flirting with deflation. The annual inflation rate was zero percent in September, and the monthly consumer price index (CPI) rose at a lower-than-expected 0.2 percent. Wholesale prices are also undershooting forecasts as the producer price index (PPI) declined 2.5 percent year-over-year.
But ING economists still expect full-year inflation to top 1 percent next year.
Property investment continued to plunge, plummeting 9.1 percent in the first nine months of 2023 and falling short of market projections.
Country Garden, the nation’s largest private property developer, is on the cusp of defaulting on its $11 billion overseas debt as it has yet to execute a $15 million coupon payment to bond investors.
Evergrande, China’s second-largest real estate developer, continues to bleed red ink as it faces $300 billion in liabilities. After defaulting on its debts in 2021, the company initiated restructuring efforts, but industry observers warn that the plan is in jeopardy because of regulatory investigations into a property development subsidiary.
Fixed asset investment eased to 3.1 percent, down from 3.2 percent and falling short of the consensus estimate of 3.2 percent.
“A decision to discontinue the youth unemployment figures just after they hit a record high doesn’t inspire confidence,” said Capital Economics in a research note.
Since the pandemic, the nation has been struggling with youth employment. Economists assert that there are two reasons for this trend. The first is that there has been an immense imbalance between the surplus of graduates and a slowing economic landscape that has not produced enough job openings. The second is that younger graduates are seeking white-collar employment opportunities, which are not aligned with the regime’s broader manufacturing aims.
However, Mr. Graceffo does not buy Beijing’s rationale for the higher jobless figure for young people, citing the contraction in the manufacturing sector for nearly all of 2023.
“Are their manufacturing sector jobs that are going unfilled because young people refuse to do them? That’s not the case,” he added.
Experts argue this is a problem of Beijing’s making as the regime has pushed for university enrollment for decades. The CCP’s attempts to clamp down on the private economy have also stifled the service industry. After a solid start to 2023, the services sector has been on a downward trajectory and is below pre-crisis levels.
That said, the 21.3 percent figure might be misleading, too, Mr. Graceffo noted. It could be as high as 40 percent.
The worst might be over for China, says Mark Makepeace, the CEO of Wilshire Indexes.
“The updates are specifically designed to control access to computing power, which will significantly slow the PRC’s development of [the] next-generation frontier model, and could be leveraged in ways that threaten the U.S. and our allies, especially because they could be used for military uses and modernization,” said Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo in a statement, adding that the revisions will only affect a small portion of the AI chip market.
“The fact is China, even after the update of this rule, will import hundreds of billions of dollars of semiconductors from the United States,” she said.
The new rules are expected to impact many companies, including AMD, Broadcom Intel, Marvell, and Nvidia.
By erecting a barrier to a massive market for AI semiconductors, there are fears that Beijing could retaliate against U.S. companies conducting business in the country, effectively igniting a fresh trade war.