While the move is an important step for ensuring that the United States stays ahead in AI innovation and can use this tool for good, “more work needs to be done,” one business leader said.
“It is imperative for the United States to lead the effort to create a risk-based AI regulatory and policy framework that is reinforced by industry standards and promotes the safe and responsible development and use of this transformational technology. The Biden Administration’s AI Executive Order is a step towards achieving that goal, but more work needs to be done,” he added.
According to the White House, the executive order establishes new standards for AI safety and security, protects Americans’ privacy, promotes equity and civil rights, and advocates for consumers and workers. It also aims to promote innovation and competition while strengthening the United States’s leadership in this industry.
The order directs law enforcement agencies to establish testing standards and handle related chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and cyber threats, as well.
“[The] U.S. must collaborate with key partners and allies to develop more sensible global governance frameworks that advance our common democratic goals and values,” the report reads.
“To win the future and beat China, it’s vital that America leads in developing and deploying artificial intelligence with our values built in,” she added.
Indeed, while the United States pioneered AI development, the country has been slow in regulating the technology. According to the think-tank Brookings, the United Kingdom, the European Union, and China have already surpassed the United States in moving toward a regulatory framework for AI.
In April 2021, for example, the European Commission was the first to propose a regulatory framework that aims to regulate AI systems based on the risk they pose to users. Different risk levels will determine the extent of regulation, the commission said, adding that the EU’s approach focuses on ensuring safety, transparency, and non-discrimination in AI systems while fostering innovation and responsible development.
In March this year, the UK government joined the tech-savvy region in outlining several key principles for its AI regulatory framework with the goal of capitalizing on the potential provided by the technology while also fostering public trust and guaranteeing its responsible development and use. Like the United States, the UK government also wants to cement its position as a global leader in AI by encouraging innovation, investment, and ethical practices, according to the UK’s Department for Science, Innovation, and Technology.
Beyond budget allocations, China has made significant strides in various AI domains, including facial recognition, fintech, drones, 5G telecommunications, and strategic investments. In terms of AI research commitment, patent filings, and investments, China is not merely catching up with the United States; it is establishing itself as a formidable force shaping the future of AI.
For example, Chinese institutions reportedly filed 29,853 AI-related patents in 2022, nearly 80 percent more than the number of U.S. filings. In contrast, U.S. patent filings decreased by 5.5 percent during the same period. Regarding the output of influential AI research papers, reports indicate that China’s most-cited AI research papers are poised to overtake the United States by 2025.
According to the USCC, given that both research and use of AI-based systems are expanding exponentially, the next decade or two will see AI being used by nearly every industry and government department. Moreover, the effects on culture, the economy, and the safety of the nation will be far-reaching, it said.