President Joe Biden’s recent executive order calling for the ban on some investments in China’s tech sector still has a long way to go before being fully implemented, but it could be the beginning of meaningful change in the U.S.–China competition, experts say.
Eric Sayers, a nonresident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute think tank, said the administration’s rules regarding investments into China’s artificial intelligence, quantum, and semiconductor sectors would likely take a full year to be honed and implemented.
“The pessimistic way to look at this is the administration spent a year briefing everyone, consulting on this process, only to start a new consulting clock here,” Mr. Sayers said during an Aug. 11 talk at the Center for a New American Security.
“And it’s likely to be another year before the final rule of this process even comes out.”
Nevertheless, Mr. Sayers said, the move does represent an “expanded willingness” by the executive branch to focus on flows of finance and technology as means to improving national security.
“This [type of action] wasn’t thinkable a couple of years ago,” Mr. Sayers said.
“That discussion triggered an ongoing debate in Washington about where and how and whether certain U.S. investments in China might pose a risk to national security,” he said.
Mr. Harrell also said that although the scope of the proposed investment bans is fairly narrow, the criteria for investments that require federal notification are broad. This means that most investments won’t be banned outright, but the government will be able to gather a much more comprehensive picture of outbound U.S. investment.
“They basically did what they said they were going to do, which is something narrow and targeted,” Mr. Harrell said of the actions.
“All of those technologies are going to be militarized.”
Mr. Burns added that the CCP, which rules China as a single-party state, is engaged in the “consistent and persistent theft of intellectual property” to accelerate “forced technology transfer” from the United States.