Although this disorder has a similarly deleterious effect to drug and alcohol abuse disorders, “it’s rarely talked about as such,” the piece notes.
“Most people have a better understanding of (and sympathy for) the struggle that comes with drug and alcohol addiction, and tend to view problem gambling as something of a lesser evil—one that’s far easier to control,” said Erica Sweeney, author of the report.
That’s because, as the authors of the paper warn, artificial intelligence (AI) and other rapidly evolving technologies are making gambling more accessible and more addictive.
The researchers discuss the “structural characteristics” associated with online gambling and how these “features which contribute to the amount of time or money that gamblers spend using them” are becoming more potent.
The results of their study indicate “that online sports betting is instantly accessible, provides rapid and continuous betting opportunities, and offers user-interactivity via features such as ‘cash-out’ and the ability to instantly deposit funds.”
“Additionally,” the researchers wrote, “the online sports betting market has expanded into adjacent industries such as esports.”
The expansion into esports, a domain that’s heavily dominated by AI, AR (augmented reality), and VR (virtual reality), is further blurring the line between gambling and invasive technology.
Jamie Torrance, one of the authors of the study, tells me that we should expect to see “the gambling industry use AI in various ways which could make the issue of gambling harm worse.”
“For example,” said Mr. Torrance, a lecturer of psychology at the University of Chester in the UK, “AI can be used to better predict customer habits, which, in turn, could be used by the industry to optimize their strategies in increasing profits.
“Similarly, AI can be used to better profile gamblers, which can identify targeted demographics for specific forms of marketing (such as free bets delivered at just the right time).”
He’s right. AI thrives on data. The more data gambling organizations have, the more they can tailor advertisements and opportunities to target gamblers at an individual level.
In terms of AR, an immersive, interactive experience that mixes the real world with computer-generated content, Mr. Torrance said that “the key issue here is the level of immersion that’s involved. Slot machine players can enter what’s known as a ‘dark-flow state,’ where they become completely engrossed and lose track of time whilst gambling.”
Therefore, he said, “With AR being highly immersive, it has the potential to facilitate these ‘dark-flow states’ very easily. Not to mention immersion is a key driver of disordered gambling.”
Which begs the question: What, if anything, can be done to prevent the gambling crisis from becoming even more detrimental in nature?
In terms of preventative measures, Mr. Torrance is worried that “policymakers and regulators simply don’t know enough about these technologies to mitigate any harms yet.” However, he noted that “limiting the use of AI to profile those who engage with addictive products would be a good start, and enforcing breaks in play when it comes to AR could also be beneficial.”
“Right now,” he said, “the goals of technology are not aligned with our goals as humans. We need technology that empowers us to make the life choices we want to make.”