The president of the Illinois chapter of the NAACP is facing calls to step down after calling immigrants “savages” and home invaders earlier this year.
The woman, identified as Ms. Haley, discusses the homeless crisis among the black population, stating that black residents have been forced to sleep on the streets and are not being given the same kind of help or aid as immigrants.
The Illinois NAACP president goes on to warn others to “get ready” for an influx of immigrants, saying, “They’re up to 80,000 immigrants on the West Side of Chicago and the South Side.”
“People are even renting out abandoned buildings and allowing them to live up in there, and that’s inhumane because they don’t have the sewage, the plumbing, the draining, but to get them off the streets, they’re just housing them anywhere,” she said.
“Springfield, Peoria, Bloomington, Kankakee, just get ready if you declared yourself to be a safe haven or a safe place for immigrants to come, because they are shopping around, and the busloads are coming,” she continued.
“Black people have been on the streets forever and ever, and nobody cares,” while the government is rushing to provide housing and other services to immigrants, she said.
Speaking to The Daily Beast Wednesday, Mr. Watson said the meeting between Ms. Haley and other NAACP state leaders took place on Oct. 26.
“The comments came up when some of the Chicago-based presidents started to talk about the migrant crisis, the funding that was going into neighborhoods, and they had differing opinions from my own. It’s OK to have differing opinions,” Mr. Watson said.
“They had different opinions about some of the resources that were going to the community, that resources weren’t going towards individuals within the community, even though those resources are coming from different sources… That’s OK to have a different opinion. But President Haley engaged in what I would call absolute hate speech.”
Mr. Watson has resigned from the NAACP in protest of Ms. Haley’s comments, he told the publication, adding that he believes Ms. Haley should also step down.
As well as being the president of the Illinois chapter of the NAACP, Ms. Haley runs a company that provides training programs to help individuals grow personally and professionally, according to its website.
Ms. Haley became the first female president of the Illinois NAACP State Conference in 2015 and is also serving her sixth consecutive term as president of the Springfield Branch NAAC, according to the biography.
Responding to the newly-emerged video footage of Ms. Haley from the October meeting, Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker—who in October wrote to the White House asking it to provide more resources to the state after the arrival of over 15,000 immigrants —said her comments were “reprehensible.”