The United States will not compromise on national security, but it doesn’t seek to decouple from Beijing, U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo told senior Chinese officials on Tuesday.
Ms. Raimondo, the fourth senior American official to travel to China in 10 weeks, met several high-ranking Chinese officials on Tuesday before talking to Premier Li Qiang.
“I have had a very productive visit so far,” Ms. Raimondo told Mr. Li ahead of the closed-door sessions. “President Biden asked me to come here to convey a message that we do not seek to decouple; we seek to maintain our $700 billion commercial relationship with China.”
Mr. Li highlighted that economic and trade relations are crucial for the stability of the U.S.-China ties. But he hopes Washington “can work in the same direction with China” and develop the bilateral ties with “more sincerity and concrete actions.”
Earlier on Tuesday, Ms. Raimondo also sat down with Vice Premier He Lifeng, Chinese leader Xi Jinping’s close ally who oversees the country’s economy.
“While we will never compromise in protecting our national security, I want to be clear that we will never seek to decouple or hold China’s economy back,” Ms. Raimondo said at the start of the meeting.
Mr. He raised concerns about the U.S. tariffs, export controls, and investment restrictions, according to the readout from China’s Ministry of Commerce.
The two commerce chiefs also agreed to have regular conversations and meet “at least once a year,” according to China’s commerce ministry. The ministry described their first exchange as “rational, frank, and constructive.”
Another agreement reached during the exchange was to set up a new “commercial issues” working group to “seek solutions on trade and investment issues and to advance U.S. commercial interests in China,” the U.S. Commerce Department said.
The Chinese regime has already tightened its own export controls. Starting from Aug. 1, gallium and germanium—two rare metals critical to the manufacturing of semiconductors—are subject to export restrictions, the Ministry of Commerce announced in July, citing the need to protect national security.
Ms. Raimondo said on Monday that she raised concerns about Beijing’s restrictions on Micron Technology, Intel, and other U.S. business during the meeting with Mr. Wang.
On Tuesday morning, Ms. Raimondo met with Chinese Minister of Culture and Tourism Hu Heping, during which she “​​underscored the importance of people-to-people exchange to the broader U.S.-China bilateral relationship,” according to her department.
“The Americans have been reaching out to China for two and a half years and have been rebuffed; communist China’s treating the Biden administration like a lackey,” Bart Marcois, former principal deputy assistant secretary of International Affairs at the Energy Department, told NTD, the sister media outlet of The Epoch Times.
Now, “they are facing their real estate empire imploding and an economic depression, they suddenly have an interest in speaking to America, and of course, it’s on commerce and trade.”
Mr. Marcois predicted that the Chinese regime would “make a lot of overtures and act like they are making concessions” to the United States in the face of an ailing economy.
“But what they really want is to be able to continue investing in strategic real estate and strategic technology” in the United States without interfering and want “increased American investment in China,” he added.
Mr. Marcois said Ms. Raimondo’s China trip has more importance to Beijing than Washington.
“It’s not as important to us because we hold the upper hand here,” he said. “If she can just hold firm, then we could make progress.” But if Ms. Raimondo focuses on diplomatic detente, “we’re playing the Chinese game rather than the American game.”
“Now is not the time to make concessions. Now’s the time to ask China to make concessions,” he said.