Using data collected in microchips, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) could monitor activities all over the world in people’s homes, as well as weapons deployment, according to a report.
IoT stands for the Internet of Things, which includes devices that can collect data, communicate with each other, send data to back-end systems, and act on the information collected.
Its application is increasingly ubiquitous as more homes, industries, and cities become “smart,” including mobile-controlled light bulbs, thermostats, smart security systems, medical monitoring devices, watches and other wearable devices, or equipment and control systems in smart industries and smart cities.
Having sent the report to the UK government, Parton urged countries to wake up to the threat.
“Given the immense importance of these modules to modern industry and life, this would make other countries highly vulnerable to a threat to withhold supplies. Dependency is dangerous when it is in the hands of the CCP, a potential, if not actual, hostile power,” he wrote.
Parton also said using Chinese IoT modules in critical national infrastructure and key industries could enable more espionage and theft of intellectual property, allow “detailed surveillance in smart cities,” or give bad actors an opportunity to sabotage the systems.
To find out about weapons manufacturing in the United States, the Chinese intelligence services may be able to “build up a worryingly accurate picture of how many spare parts or weapons systems have been transported and to where” by using data harvested by IoT modules embedded in the supply chains and logistics system, he said in one example of the potential risks.
In another example, Parton said the IoT modules in automated farming equipment in the United States can collect detailed information such as crop yields, giving the CCP an edge in their grain contracts negotiations or business takeovers and enabling the regime to slap “more accurately targeting sanctions on American growers for political ends.”
Quectel and Fibocom, two Chinese companies that lead the global IoT market, control almost half of the world’s market share in terms of IoT module shipments, thanks to their competitive price and maintenance contracts.
But Parton said their competitive edge is “built on the back of the work given to them by the CCP in policing the minority population in Xinjiang.”
Quectel, Fibocom, and China Mobile control more than half of the global IoT market.
It’s not yet a “lost cause” because a big chunk of their share is China’s domestic market, Parton said, warning free and open countries to stop the CCP-controlled and subsidised Chinese companies from increasing their global market share.
Otherwise, countries would risk losing their own IoT industries and depending upon the CCP for cellular IoT modules, he said.