China is spending billions of dollars annually to disseminate disinformation and propaganda around the world, and with advancements in artificial intelligence, the communist regime will soon be able to “surgically target foreign audiences” with its influence operations, according to a report released on Sept. 28.
“Since its founding in 1921, the CCP has used information manipulation to ensure regime survival and increase its power. Today, as the PRC seeks to reshape the international order to its advantage, Beijing builds on this legacy by leveraging propaganda and censorship,” the GEC report says.
Though China is already spending billions each year on building up an information ecosystem in which Chinese propaganda and disinformation have “become dominant,” the report noted that money allocated to its influence operations “is growing.”
If China is left unchecked in its efforts, the report warned, it will create “biases and gaps that could even lead nations to make decisions that subordinate their economic and security interests to Beijing’s.”
“Pro-PRC accounts generated spam posts from accounts with the same name as that of Safeguard Defenders, possibly seeking to trigger Twitter’s automatic de-boosting response,” the GEC report says.
The GEC report also highlighted the Chinese-owned video-sharing app TikTok, saying it is an example of how Chinese social media platforms can become tools for the CCP to censor views and promote its narratives. TikTok is owned by China-based tech giant ByteDance.
“According to U.S. government information, as of late 2020, ByteDance maintained a regularly updated internal list identifying people who were likely blocked or restricted from all ByteDance platforms, including TikTok, for reasons such as advocating for Uyghur independence,” the GEC report says. “ByteDance directed that specific individuals be added to this list if they were deemed to pose a public sentiment risk, likely to prevent criticism of the PRC government from spreading on ByteDance-owned platforms.”
As part of the effort to “combat disinformation,” Beijing and Moscow would work together to “offer an accurate account of facts and truth” and “champion justice and legal principles,” according to China’s foreign ministry.
The GEC report explained that what Beijing sees as “disinformation” actually refers to “narratives it perceives as threatening its interests.”
Following Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine, Beijing has amplified Russian disinformation, such as echoing Moscow’s accusations that the United States “is escalating the war in Ukraine,” according to the GEC report. “Russia has returned the favor by promoting PRC propaganda related to Taiwan and other PRC interests.”
The CCP is also known to attribute articles to “manufactured persona,” giving them titles such as “international affairs commentators” to deceptively promote their contents, according to the GEC report.
“These manufactured personae distort foreign information environments by laundering CCP propaganda narratives through local media outlets to influence foreign audiences at a granular level, which degrades the integrity of information spaces globally,” the GEC report says.
One example is the name “Yi Fan,” a manufactured persona that has appeared in the byline of foreign publications, the GEC report said, adding “The Yi persona’s arguments closely align with CCP narratives across a wide range of topics globally, seeking to portray Beijing as a responsible actor and major power.”
So far, China has achieved “mixed results” with its propaganda and censorship, the GEC report stated, though it warned of the severe consequences should the CCP prevail.