A cluster of huge Chinese dams in the upper reaches of the Mekong exacerbated severe drought conditions in the river’s lower reaches this summer. Experts believe that over the past decades, the dams have become a de facto weapon of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP),  advancing its interests in Southeast Asia, while heavily damaging and threatening the region’s ecology and livelihoods.
The Mekong is about 2,900 miles long, with its headwaters in the Tibetan Plateau. Its upper reaches, winding 1,300 miles through southwest China, are known as the Lancang River. In addition to China, the Mekong flows through five countries in Southeast Asia: Myanmar, Laos, Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam. The giant river is a lifeline for millions of people.
China takes “water out of the river during the wet season and then puts it back during the dry season for hydropower production,” said Mr. Eyler, “That exacerbates the kind of drought conditions that are setting in now.”
MDM monitors an 11-dam cascade on the Lancang River. Mr. Wang noted that by the end of 2020 that number was actually 12: it should include the Guoduo hydropower plant, which is located on the Zhaqu River in CCP-controlled Tibet. The Zhaqu is viewed as the source of the Lancang River. Eight more dams are either planned or under construction.
Another 85 dams are scattered over hundreds of branches of the Lancang River. Among them, the enormous Nuozhadu Dam in southwestern Yunnan Province has a total reservoir capacity of 23.703 billion cubic meters,  Mr. Wang said in the report.
In response, Beijing insisted that the average annual runoff at the mouth of the Lancang River accounts for only 13.5 percent of the Mekong’s estuary and that the dams have had “no effect” on the river’s lower reaches.
Experts and scholars questioned the official statement at the time.
Mr. Wang agreed, noting that the primary water source of the Lancang River is snow melt from mountains and groundwater in the territory of China, which provide plenty of water even in the dry season. The Mekong River mainly depends on water from the upper reaches (Lancang River) when there is no rainfall during the dry season.
However, Chinese-built hydroelectric dams have blocked much of that sediment, resulting in ecological degradation in the Mekong River and the Mekong Delta.
Increasing salinization in the Mekong Delta is directly affecting rice production in Thailand and Vietnam, both of which have high yields and exports of rice.
Capture fisheries, a vital source of food for Mekong riparian countries, are also facing challenges. For example, in Cambodia’s Tonle Sap Lake, the world’s fourth-largest inland fishery, hundreds of fish species that migrate from the lake to the upper reaches for spawning have been blocked, and some species are on the verge of extinction.
In 1995, the Mekong River riparian countries established the Mekong River Commission, But China, a critical upstream country, has refused to join.
U.S.-based China expert Shi Shan told The Epoch Times on Aug. 8 that the Chinese government is unlikely to join the Mekong River Commission and the ruling communist party has never recognized such a think tank and supervisory body.
Beijing’s help was proved to have ulterior motives. A week later, the first meeting of the leaders of the Lancang-Mekong Cooperation, chaired by China’s then-Premier Li Keqiang, was held in Sanya, on southern China’s tropical Hainan island.
Having received “emergency” water from the CCP, the five “thirsty” southeastern countries downstream signed the Lancang-Mekong agreement, to “build a community of shared future of peace and prosperity among Lancang-Mekong countries,” according to an official statement.
The Lancang-Mekong Cooperation is part of the CCP’s “Belt and Road” initiative, which uses investments, loans, and infrastructure to expand China’s influence in Southeast Asia.
Mr. Shi said that since the start of the CCP-led Mekong-Lancang Cooperation, the CCP has gone on the offense in Southeast Asia, providing obedient countries with funding, investment, and more information about the impoundment and release of water from upstream dams, but holding it back from those that are not compliant.
Between 2010 and 2017, Ream Naval Base, near the South China Sea and the Strait of Malacca, was the site of joint training and naval exercises between Cambodia and the U.S. military.
However, in 2017, Cambodia suspended Angkor Sentinel, the annual joint exercise between the U.S. Army and the Royal Cambodian Army.
In 2019, the U.S. Defense Department asked Cambodia to explain why it suddenly turned down a U.S. offer to repair a naval base, raising suspicion that Cambodia had plans to host China’s military.
Chinese-funded redevelopment of Ream Naval Base included dredging of the harbor to allow larger military vessels to dock there. In July 2023, geospatial intelligence provider BlackSky released imagery showing the nearly completed base.
“The speed of development at the Ream base makes it difficult to deny the intentional velocity behind China’s overseas basing initiatives,” said Craig Singleton, China Program deputy director at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, in a BlackSky press release. Mr. Singleton noted that the harbor was big enough to support the new 300-meter-long Type 003 Fujian aircraft carrier.