President Joe Biden on Aug. 9 signed an executive order to begin the process of restricting high-tech U.S.-based investments going toward China in the areas of artificial intelligence, quantum technology, and semiconductors.
The president, in the order, declared a national emergency in relation to the “unusual and extraordinary threat” posed by “countries of concern” that are using sensitive technologies to advance their military and intelligence capabilities. It added that U.S. investments “risk exacerbating this threat.”
“The Biden administration is committed to keeping America safe and defending America’s national security,” one official said in an Aug. 9 press call. “That includes appropriately protecting technologies that are critical to the next generation of military innovation.
“[China] has a stated goal to acquire and produce key sensitive technologies that directly support [its] military modernization-related activities such as weapons development, and has exploited U.S. investments to develop domestic military and intelligence capabilities.”
The official said that the new executive order will target a “narrow subset” of investments in AI, quantum information technologies, and semiconductors and microelectronics to fill a “critical gap” in national security.
“This is a national security action, not an economic one,” the official said.
Though the Treasury still must go through a potentially lengthy rule-making process to give notice and receive comments on its proposed rules, administration officials are hopeful that a strong bipartisan desire in Congress to “meaningfully regulate outbound investments” will help to craft the most robust mechanisms possible.
“We are pursuing a policy of de-risking with regard to [China], by taking targeted national security actions,” the official said. “[We are] not decoupling our economies, and this policy reflects that approach.”
In a letter announcing the probes, committee chairman Mike Gallagher (R-Wis.) and ranking Democrat Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-Ill.) said that the CCP is actively working to hone its military edge through U.S. research and investments.
“[China] is actively seeking out and using advancements in AI to perpetrate human rights abuses and enhance its military capabilities,” the letter states. “It is likewise using advancements in quantum computing and semiconductor manufacturing to support the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).”
“[Technology] is in many ways the heart of the competition,” Burns said at a June meeting of the Global Leadership Coalition.
“All of those technologies are going to be militarized.”
Mr. Burns added that the CCP, which rules China as a single-party state, is engaged in the “consistent and persistent theft of intellectual property” to accelerate “forced technology transfer” from the United States.
“We need to be looking at all forms of influence that will prevent a combat environment or a crisis that will, in fact, be devastating for the globe,” Mr. Studeman said during an Aug. 8 talk at the Hudson Institute, a conservative think tank.