Tesla and its rival electric vehicle manufacturers in China signaled a truce after a months-long price war and agreed to a “socialist values” pledge.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk, who is also the owner of Twitter and SpaceX, and Chinese automaker CEOs, agreed to adhere to a “core socialist values” pledge and to compete fairly in China’s EV market after Beijing ordered the industry to rein in their conflict.
The car companies also said they would avoid “abnormal pricing,” which may signal an end to the 2023 price war that has disrupted the industry in China.
The automakers further pledged not to mislead consumers and vowed to help stabilize growth and avoid risk in China.
Ironically, Twitter happens to be banned in China, and the Tesla CEO was prohibited from using his own platform during the visit.
“Adhere to industry rules and regulations, regulate marketing activities, maintain fair competition and not disrupt fair competition with abnormal pricing.
“Pay attention to marketing and publicity methods, and not exaggerate or use false publicity to attract attention or gain new customers.
“Put quality first, and improve lives with high-quality products and services.
Executives from 16 auto manufacturers attended the signing ceremony at the China Auto Forum on July 6 in Shanghai to acknowledge and commit to the four terms laid out in the pledge, which are non-binding.
The main signatories included BYD, Nio, Xpeng, Geely and Chery Automobile, and Tesla.
The other firms involved included FAW Group Group Co., BAIC Group, JAC Motors, Dongfeng Motor Co., GAC Group, SAIC Motor Corp., Sinotruk, Great Wall Motor Co, and Chongqing Changan Automobile Co.
MIIT had directed the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers to bring the 16 companies together to sign the agreement, said the CCP’s MITT chief, Miao Wei, at the event in Shanghai.
The pledge is an example of how Musk is attempting to navigate increasingly tense U.S.-China business relations as the two rival powers compete in the world’s biggest electric-vehicle market.
In March, some models made at Tesla’s Shanghai plant were 14 percent cheaper than in 2022.
The Chinese market accounts for just under one-third of annual sales for Tesla, making it one of its most lucrative markets.
The weak demand for vehicles in China partly stemmed from the aftermath of the pandemic and due to forecasts that EV prices would start dropping after a recent buildup in inventory.
The resulting inventory buildup led to major EV discounts and exacerbated concerns in Beijing, which is attempting to promote EV use in rural areas to boost the domestic auto industry and expand consumer consumption.
Chinese Tesla owners made complaints at stores and distribution centers, with some even ransacking one of the company’s Experience Centers.
Tesla and its main Chinese rival, BYD, which is backed by another American billionaire, Warren Buffett, were at the forefront of the conflict by cutting prices by an average of 6 percent through the first five months of 2023.
Tesla and BYD, China’s biggest car brand, became the chief beneficiaries of the fight and boosted sales at the expense of smaller rivals and other foreign brands.
“The agreement comes at a time when the price war is already at the point of pause,” China Passenger Car Association Secretary General Cui Dongshu told Bloomberg.
Deliveries from Tesla’s Shanghai plant in June climbed almost 20 percent from a year earlier, reported Bloomberg.
In a separate video statement to the World Artificial Intelligence Conference in Shanghai on June 29, Musk predicted that the EV industry would have almost full self-driving capabilities by the end of the year.
Approval of the new features would give Tesla a major advantage over its competitors in the tough Chinese EV market.
Musk was also hopeful that the Chinese would improve their capabilities in artificial intelligence while at the same time calling for regulatory oversight of the new technology.
“As long as the Chinese people decide to do well in one thing, they will, including AI,” Musk said.
Meanwhile, Musk’s recent actions in China pointed a spotlight on attempts to restrict free speech, which have intensified in China and in the United States, under the Biden administration.
Yaqiu Wang, Senior China Researcher with Human Rights Watch, said that Musk’s signing of the pledge undermined his moral standing.