So what’s it really up to?
In 2020 the Wellcome Trust, which Farrar heads, was ahead of the game. In May, a few weeks after the UK COVID vaccine taskforce was launched, Wellcome announced it was creating a U.S.-based “advanced research non-profit” organisation called Wellcome Leap to “accelerate innovations in global health.”
“The global pandemic is our generation’s Sputnik,” said Dugan. “It is calling on us to respond urgently—now—and also to create new capabilities for the future. We need new, risk-tolerant innovation organisations to drive health advances at the pace the world needs them, not only for the current crisis, but for the most pressing global health challenges of our time.”
Wellcome Leap calls mRNA technology, which Dr. Robert Kadlec’s Manhattan Project launched on humanity via a regulatory wormhole, the “greatest scientific accomplishments of our generation.” The R3 plan is to build a “global network of biofoundries” to “increase exponentially the number of biologic products that can be designed, developed, and produced every year, reducing their costs and increasing equitable access; and to create a self-sustaining network of manufacturing facilities providing globally distributed, state-of-the-art surge capacity to meet future pandemic needs.”
Wellcome Leap claims mRNA vaccines have minimal side effects. A growing body of evidence suggests otherwise.
Care is to be taken to ensure that patients and the public trust have confidence that “healthcare data is being used wisely and overseen by people who have their best interests at heart” and the arrangements with private entities are mutually beneficial. The ambition was fully to sequence a million whole genomes by 2023–24.
The UK is not alone in trying to capitalise. On Jan. 6, 2021, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu concluded an exclusive deal with Pfizer, offering up Israel’s people as a laboratory. He said: “Ninety-eight per cent of our population has digitalised medical records, a little card, and anywhere you go in any hospital in Israel, boom, you punch it in and you know everything about this patient for the last 20 years. I said [to Albert Bourla, CEO of Pfizer], ‘We’ll use that to tell you what these vaccines, what do they do to people, not individual people, with their individual identities but statistically. What do they do to people with meningitis, with high blood pressure? What is it you want to know?’
“So Israel became, if you will, the lab for Pfizer, and that’s how we did it, we gave the information to the world.”
The Pfizer deal may explain why in 2021 Israel’s “green pass” system was amongst the most coercive in the world. Some might even say there’s a tacit admission in there that Pfizer didn’t really understand what mRNA vaccines would do when they were rolled out with the ambition of putting a needle in every arm on the planet.
Netanyahu’s ambitions go much further, pointing to the real objective. “I intend to bring on that database of medical records for the entire population, a genetic database,” he said. ‘Genomes. OK, give me a saliva sample. Volunteer. I’m sure most people would do it. Maybe we’ll pay them. Now we have a genetic record, on a medical record of a robust population, we have people from 100 lands. That’s a very powerful engine.
“Now let pharma companies, medical companies, run algorithms on this database. I’m telling you right away, they’ll give preference for a few years to Israeli firms and then to the world, but you can create a biotechnological industry that is unheard of right now.”
“Generally speaking, we’re talking about improving biology and redesigning organisms for beneficial purposes,” she said. “It’s going to allow us to not just edit genomes, but also and importantly, write a new code for life. This can transform not just health but materials, our economy and fashion. I can’t give an area in which we won’t see a significant improvement.”