A generation ago, we imagined a future with robots just like in The Jetsons.
While these types of robots are coming, what many of us aren’t aware of is that artificial intelligence is already here and it’s a major disruptor.
And, as much as we want to, we cannot ignore it any longer. It’s changing industries, companies, culture, and how we live our daily lives.
AI uses algorithms to allow a machine to carry out actions that were once carried out by humans. A branch of AI is machine learning, where computers have the ability to learn from themselves and begin to carry out tasks autonomously.
Another branch of AI is hyper-personalization, where individuals receive hyper-individualized products, ads, or services.
AI also includes chatbots and smart assistants.
Knowing what AI technically is, take a second and think about all the things in your life that utilize AI.
The problem, as conservative radio host and co-founder of Blaze Media Glenn Beck states, is that, “It’s [AI] paying attention to us instead of us paying attention to it.”
And that is extremely dangerous when you consider how powerful AI can become.
During the 2021 South by Southwest tech conference in Austin, Texas, billionaire Elon Musk told the crowd, “Mark my words, AI is far more dangerous than nukes.
“I am really quite close to the cutting edge in AI, and it scares the hell out of me ... It’s capable of vastly more than almost anyone knows, and the rate of improvement is exponential.”
Stephen Hawking said something very similar. “Unless we learn how to prepare for, and avoid, the potential risks, AI could be the worst event in the history of our civilization.”
All that to say, AI is going to be a major disruptor in our lives. It already is.
Instead of panicking or sticking our heads in the sand, we need to look at it and understand how it will alter our lives forever. If we don’t, we can’t prepare.
When a tech disruption occurred in history, the world changed. Fast.
These changes can fundamentally alter the way that businesses operate, the products and services they offer, and the way consumers interact with them.
Tech disruption often involves the introduction of new technologies or approaches that displace existing methods or products, leading to the demise of established players and the emergence of new leaders.
For example, the rise of smartphones disrupted the traditional mobile phone market, while streaming services have disrupted the traditional television and movie industry.
Investopedia explains, “While buggy makers and horse trainers saw their jobs disappear, many more new jobs were created in car factories, road and bridge construction, and other industries.”
With that being said, there is reason to fear the current AI disruption we are facing.
The reason the current AI and ChatGPT situation is alarming is that it does have the power to outweigh the creation of new jobs.
To put it simply, they call AI devices “smart” devices for a reason.
They are smart, and they are getting smarter every day.
The more we interact with AI, the smarter it becomes.
Essentially, AI already knows everything and may start to discover things even we don’t know.
Glenn Beck reports: “This is why Microsoft unplugged their first chatbot. It was talking to another chatbot, and everybody was really excited until about fifteen minutes in. Because of machine learning, it started using a new language that the other machine understood and that it understood that they had just taught each other quickly. And it started having a conversation we couldn’t follow or understand, and we unplugged it.”
But ChatGPT isn’t being unplugged. It is quickly taking over.
For example, Buzzfeed discovered they could use ChatGPT to write articles, and their stock price soared.
Ironically, as I was researching this topic, I received an email from Google inviting me to join the Bard waitlist (Google’s ChatGPT competitor).
The email suggests: “Think of Bard as your creative and helpful collaborator, here to bring your ideas to life using generative AI. You might ask Bard to outline a blog post about summer mocktail recipes, draft a packing list for a weekend fishing and camping trip, or help you understand if lightning can strike the same place twice.”
Part of the issue is that many of us are looking for giant robots without realizing AI is already here all around us, getting smarter each day and quickly replacing jobs.
But it’s more than that.
This type of technology can be used not only to disrupt industries but to cause serious harm.
Digital Trends reports: “In a survey of 1,500 IT and cybersecurity professionals conducted by BlackBerry, 51 percent of respondents believed that ChatGPT will be responsible for a successful cyberattack in the next 12 months. As much as 78 percent feel that an attack will happen within two years, while a handful think it could happen within the next few months.”
Moreover, experts are very concerned that chatbots, such as ChatGPT, will be used to create and spread persuasive propaganda.
We don’t know exactly what the future holds, but what we do know is ChatGPT creator Sam Altman has admitted he is “a little bit scared” of the potential of the technology and is a prepper.
In a profile with the New Yorker a few years ago, Altman said, “I prep for survival … I try not to think about it too much … But I have guns, gold, potassium iodide, antibiotics, batteries, water, gas masks from the Israeli Defense Force, and a big patch of land in Big Sur I can fly to.”