Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates has warned that artificial intelligence technologies could aid in manipulating elections and “tip” results in close races.
“How many people will see it and change their votes at the last minute? It could tip the scales, especially in a close election.”
The ability of AIs to generate realistic imagery is what makes it a perfect tool to spread misinformation online and sway public opinions. As AI lowers the difficulty of creating high-quality content, it could open up the pathway for large-scale microtargeting of specific populations to influence them in favor of a party or candidate.
However, it later came to light that the images were fake and generated via AI. “Smearing Donald Trump with fake AI images is completely unacceptable. I’m not sharing them, but we’re in a new era. Be even more skeptical of what you see on the internet,” Sen. JD Vance (R-Ohio) said in a June 8 tweet.
The billionaire also pointed out that AI can not only be used to create deepfakes but also aid in identifying them. “Intel, for example, has developed a deepfake detector, and the government agency DARPA is working on technology to identify whether video or audio has been manipulated.”
“AI will be able to find minimum winning coalitions in n-dimensional political space to determine short- and medium-term political goals, for example, and then influence those populations through AI content production,” he wrote.
“Through micro-targeting, micro-production, and micro-delivery of subtle propaganda, AI could determine democratic decision-making outcomes like at no other time in history, thereby making those formerly democratic processes undemocratic.”
This includes restrictions on “generating high volumes of campaign materials” and a ban on “campaign materials personalized to or targeted at specific demographics.”
Calls for legal restrictions on the use of AI for political purposes are strengthening. Nonprofit consumer advocacy organization Public Citizen has urged the U.S. Federal Election Commission (FEC) to create a rule banning the use of political deepfakes. It also called on major political parties and their candidates to pledge not to use these tools to mislead the electorate.
“The technology threatens election-altering hoaxes, on the one hand, and a destruction of voters’ ability to believe even truthful images and information, on the other.”
But in this instance as well, Mr. Gates pointed to using AI to counter such attacks. He added that for this reason, “we should not try to temporarily keep people from implementing new developments in AI, as some have proposed.”
For all drawbacks, Mr. Gates had a positive counter-take regarding AI, which is not surprising as his companies are invested in the technology.
Unlike what the tech companies perceived as an easy win, AI adoption has met stiff resistance in many industries and sectors.
In a speech at the Collision tech conference in Toronto on June 28, Geoffrey Hinton, a professor of computer science at the University of Toronto who is also known as one of the “godfathers of AI,” warned that artificial intelligence may develop a desire to seize control from human beings in a bid to accomplish its programmed goals.