Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his second address to a joint session of the U.S. Congress, emphasized the strength of India’s democracy, cultural diversity, and economic growth, as well as the potential of U.S.–India ties.
“The U.S. is the oldest and India [is] the largest democracy. Our partnership augurs well for the future of democracy,” Modi said during a speech that prompted numerous standing ovations.
“Together, we shall give a better future to the world, and a better world to the future.”
Modi, who is on a three-day state visit to the United States that began on June 20, described today’s world as being in the age of “AI.”
“In the past few years, there have been many advances in AI—artificial intelligence. At the same time, there have been even more momentous developments in another AI: America and India.”
Modi’s speech delivered a strong message about the future of U.S.–India bilateral relations and about the significance of Indian democracy to the emerging global order, experts told The Epoch Times.
Dr. Nishakant Ojha, a New Delhi-based geopolitical analyst who has formerly served in various foreign missions of India, told The Epoch Times that the United States will continue to seek stronger bilateral ties and more defense partnerships with India.
“This visit will change and give a new definition to geopolitics and geoeconomics,” Ojha said. “The United States will work closely on National Security with India and cooperate to become a superpower in the Indo-Pacific region.”
He added that India will gradually reduce its dependence on Russia for defense weapons, but not on energy.
Following Modi’s visit, the United States and India will be cooperating more closely on China policy, according to Ojha.
Aparna Pande, the director of the Initiative on the Future of India and South Asia at the Washington-based Hudson Institute, told The Epoch Times in a written message that Modi’s speech concentrated on the strengths of Indian democracy and economic growth.
“The speech touched on all key points: the democratic bonds between the two countries, the strong diaspora connection, India’s economic potential and soft power, and why India’s rise is beneficial not just for Indians, but for the world,” Pande said.
Modi spoke about how the economic partnership between India and the United States will support the growth of both countries.
“When defense and aerospace in India grow, industries in the states of Washington, Arizona, Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina, and Pennsylvania will also thrive,” he said. “When American companies grow, their research and development centers in India thrive.”
Among the many other things that Modi highlighted is India’s focus on “infrastructure development,” a must to encourage investment. He also talked about India’s revolution in digital infrastructure.
“In India, technology is not only about innovation, but also about inclusion. Today, digital platforms are empowering the rights and dignity of people, while protecting privacy,” he said.