Innovation Minister François-Philippe Champagne won’t say when he will release guidelines on reining in research partnerships with foreign entities that pose a national security risk, such as the Chinese military and its affiliated companies like Huawei.
Bloc Québécois MP Maxime Blanchette-Joncas pointed out that “in February, you announced that you would be coming out with guidelines and you have a plan. Normally in plans, there’s a kind of deadlines and dates. What you’re telling us now is there is no date in your plan.”
Mr. Champagne replied that guidelines will be delivered “very soon.”
However, Mr. Champagne said he has been adopting “a country and company agnostic approach” in developing measures to scrutinize and prohibit sensitive research collaborations. Meanwhile, he criticized his fellow MPs for “focusing on one country,” without specifying which nation he was referring to.
“Threats can come from everywhere at any time,” he said.
Conservative MPs Michael Cooper and Rick Perkins have raised concerns about the lack of government directives on prohibiting research conducted with Chinese companies like Huawei.
“If this is such a priority for you and your government, why is it that weeks ago we learned that there had been new patent applications published listed Huawei as an owner with Canadian university researchers as inventors?” Mr. Cooper asked.
“In other words, Canadian universities are still very actively in collaboration with the likes of Huawei, despite the fact that 5G is identified as one of the five areas of sensitive research.”
“What I can tell you is, since June 2021 there’s been no federal grant to Huawei,” he said.
NDP MP Richard Cannings further voiced concerns about the lack of action to stop funding from foreign entities going to Canadian institutions, as opposed to those institutions receiving funding from three Canadian government research agencies, known as the “Tri-Councils.” The agencies are the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council.