After the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, Americans were gifted with the USA PATRIOT Act by the political class. USA PATRIOT is an acronym that stands for “Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism.”
However, the sweeping implementation of those “tools” has been corrupted from its original purpose to target Americans arbitrarily determined as “terrorists” by federal agencies.
Is the trajectory of the USA PATRIOT Act’s implementation paralleling the implementation of China’s national security law?
China’s national security law provides the legal framework for the state to surveil and monitor every aspect of the behavior and day-to-day activities of average Chinese citizens to root out and prosecute “subversives,” as defined by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). That’s the tricky part, as those definitions are arbitrary and applied outside a civilized rule of law. Nevertheless, that arbitrarily applied legal framework has underpinned the rollout of China’s social credit system that enables the state to reward or punish the behavior of people and businesses as arbitrarily deemed appropriate by CCP bureaucrats.
For the first time, routine private communications could be scrutinized without the knowledge of that surveillance in the interest of “national security” during the announced “war on terrorism” that came to U.S. shores and expanded worldwide.
As a result of these and other activities, the phrase “weaponization of government agencies” has been oft-repeated to describe politically motivated activities of federal agencies such as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), FBI, Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and Department of Justice (DOJ) targeted against “dissenters.”
According to Article 38, the law can apply even to offenses committed “outside the region by a person who is not a permanent resident of the region.” Article 38 provides the legal cover for the various secret Chinese police stations uncovered recently in the United States and other countries that have been harassing overseas Chinese and others who oppose the CCP and “endangering Chinese national security.”
The actions of those secret police stations are one degree of separation away from targeting non-Chinese nationals who oppose the Beijing regime and thereby (according to the CCP) are “endangering Chinese national security.” This may be the intended long-term legal scope of China’s national security law—the legal basis to challenge any threats to the CCP anywhere in the world.
The evolution of the national security law since 1997 has paralleled the piecemeal implementation of the CCP’s social credit monitoring and control system that incorporates advanced technologies, such as facial recognition, artificial intelligence, smart cameras for surveillance, big-data processing, and the “Internet of Things” to digitally monitor CCP-prescribed compliance with China’s civil code and the national security law. These technologies are being integrated to support automated monitoring and assignment of social credit scores of every individual and business in the country, as well as the ability to detect citizens engaged in behavior that “endangers Chinese national security.”
The authoritarians in the U.S. political class are paralleling China’s trajectory in implementing measures to monitor and control American citizens in the context of eradicating perceived domestic terrorist threats. The USA PATRIOT Act isn’t quite as stringent as China’s national security law—yet—but its deviation from the original intent for political reasons is strikingly similar to what the CCP is pursuing in the way of monitoring and controlling Chinese citizens.