I recently saw a quote on Facebook attributed to Sigmund Freud that I was going to share on social media.
“One day, in retrospect, the years of struggle will strike you as the most beautiful,” the quote read.
It’s a lovely quote, but something about it didn’t smell right. Though I haven’t read Freud since college, it didn’t strike me as something he’d say. So I decided to investigate.
First, I went to Wikiquote—my go-to source for sourcing quotes. Nothing. So then I went to Quote Investigator. Same result.
After striking out on the web, I decided I’d try academia. In the past, I’ve debunked fake Lincoln and Twain quotes by consulting historians. This might have worked if I had persisted, but I got frustrated after about 20 minutes. (Finding Freud historians is harder than one might think.)
I’ve used artificial intelligence here and there on small tasks, but I’m far from an expert. Fortunately, I at least remembered my password for ChatGPT, which I used to ask about the quote.
I received this response a nanosecond later:
“The quote you mentioned, ‘One day, in retrospect, the years of struggle will strike you as the most beautiful,’ is commonly attributed to Sigmund Freud. However, there is no concrete evidence that he actually said or wrote these words. It is possible that the quote has been paraphrased or interpreted from some of Freud’s ideas or writings, but the precise origin of the quote remains uncertain. As with many famous quotes, the true source can sometimes become blurred, and they are often attributed to well-known figures for their wisdom and authority. Regardless of its origin, the quote carries a meaningful message about finding beauty or meaning in life’s challenges and struggles when reflecting on them later.”
Many people reading this might not be impressed, but I found the response and the whole experience exhilarating.
If you’re a fact-checker for a magazine—I mean a real fact-checker, not a journalist pretending to fact check government narratives for social media or partisan organizations—my suggestion is to start working on your resume, because we’re going to need a lot fewer of them.
This is understandable. Popular culture—including hit films such as “2001: A Space Odyssey,” “Alien,” and “The Terminator”—has long portrayed AI as a dangerous and sinister force. In many cases, we see AI not just working against the interests of humans, but actively trying to destroy humans.
I can’t speak to the likelihood of AI rising to destroy the human race like Skynet, but I can speak to the economic consequences of AI.
Buggy whip makers could be forgiven for despising the automobile, because it slowly destroyed their livelihood. And candle makers surely cursed the light bulb. Yet these technologies improved the lives of humans in ways we can scarcely comprehend.
Schumpeter understood humans would naturally feel a desire to “conserve obsolescent industries,” but he saw this as a generally futile, self-defeating task, which is why he argued that “perfect” competition was the best way to maximize human prosperity.
“[The question is not] how capitalism administers existing structures,” wrote Schumpeter, “[but] how it creates and destroys them ….”
This destruction of course leaves in its wake a broad swathe of economic carnage—including the jobs of buggy whip makers, fax machine repairmen, candle makers, and countless others—but it’s also the engine of human prosperity.