In what seems eerily like a “Black Mirror” episode, undertakers in China have begun using Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools to create realistic avatars of the deceased that can communicate with mourners—and industry experts claim it is only a matter of time before the technology arrives in America.
“We hope to let the living understand that death is not the end of life. People want to use AI to recover the deceased because they need to release their emotions,” Yu Hao, Fushouyun chief executive, told the publication.
Her son, Dr. Stephen Smith, co-founder and CEO of StoryFile, creator of the technology that created the life-like image. Told the publication that the mourners at his mother’s funeral felt a sense of relief from the back and forth from beyond the grave.
“Mum answered questions from grieving relatives after they had watched her cremation,” Dr. Smith told The Telegraph. “The extraordinary thing was that she answered their questions with new details and honesty.”
“People feel emboldened when recording their data. Mourners might get a freer, truer version of their lost loved one.”
“We are still in the very early stages of seeing what A.I. is capable of doing and right now we see it as a tool we could implement to help tell people’s stories,” Mr. Haskett told the Epoch Times.
And now that the avatars are being used in China, it is all but inevitable that it will spread to the rest of the world, he added.
“What we have seen is that if there is tech taking place somewhere it will soon be going everywhere, so you can be assured that this technology will be spreading in the future. It really is a matter of when, not if,” added Mr. Haskett.
Mr. Haskett, who runs four funeral homes in Canada, says that he has already seen the benefits of AI technology first hand and has begun utilizing it to assist in writing personalized funeral services.
“We have definitely been playing around with AI and have so far received great reactions,” said Mr. Haskett. “It is allowing us to build more creative material and in using it there is less time involved on our end.”
However, whether life-like avatars of the deceased will be appearing any time soon at funeral services in America to answer questions from loved ones remains an open question that will be decided by the public, according to Mr. Haskett.