President Joe Biden signed an executive order on Oct. 30 detailing a comprehensive strategy to support the responsible development of artificial intelligence (AI) while protecting the public from the dangers it poses, marking a major step toward addressing the mounting risks of AI.
The executive order sets new standards for AI safety and security, protects Americans’ privacy, promotes equity and civil rights, and advocates for consumers and workers, according to the White House. It also aims to encourage innovation and competition while bolstering U.S. leadership in this field.
“To realize the promise of AI and avoid the risk, we need to govern this technology. And there’s no other way around it, in my view,” President Biden said before signing the order at the White House.
While much of AI improves people’s lives, it may also make them worse in some cases, he noted.
“For example, using teenagers’ personal data to figure out what will keep them glued to their devices, AI makes social media more addictive,” President Biden said.
“Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war,” reads a statement by the Center for AI Safety, a nonprofit organization.
The open letter was signed by more than 350 executives, researchers, and policymakers, including Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI; Demis Hassabis, CEO of Google DeepMind; Bill Gates; and Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.).
The president is invoking the Defense Production Act, which the federal government utilizes in emergencies such as wartime mobilization or vaccine development during a pandemic. This executive order will use the same authority, requiring corporations to prove that their most powerful technologies are safe before using them.
That means that companies must inform the government about their large-scale AI systems and provide rigorous independent test results to verify they pose no national security or safety risk to Americans, according to President Biden.
As part of the order, the Departments of Energy and Homeland Security will work together to mitigate threats posed by AI systems to the nation’s critical infrastructure.