A recent op-ed penned by former House Speaker Newt Gingrich delves into what he says ought to be former President Donald Trump’s strategic approach for the upcoming 2024 election—a tactic he dubs the “sandwich” strategy.
“No one has ever tried to have a national conversation for 286 days before an election,” Mr. Gingrich writes, noting that this poses some unique challenges to President Trump’s campaign.
A drawn-out primary that would have provided fodder for media coverage is now absent. When combined with a national audience with a high capacity for boredom, Mr. Gingrich argues that this means the news establishment has fallen into a “state of shock” and is desperate for news hooks that will draw in an audience.
This means “there will be constant pressure to find something negative with which to attack and undermine the Trump campaign in particular—and Republicans in general.”
In order to counter what Mr. Gingrich predicts will be an effort by some media outlets to bombard Americans with negative Trump coverage, the former speaker recommends a “simple model to follow that will create a trap in which to capture the Biden record.”
For the bottom piece of bread, Mr. Gingrich suggests the former president’s campaign revisit the achievements of President Trump’s first term in office.
Drawing on the unique position of having been commander-in-chief, President Trump can articulate his accomplishments, such as fostering economic growth, achieving energy independence, controlling inflation, securing borders, supporting law enforcement, and effectively managing international relations.
Mr. Gingrich emphasizes that this layer sets the foundation for President Trump’s credibility in the eyes of voters by showcasing tangible successes during his tenure.
The middle layer of the sandwich, according to the former speaker, is where the Trump campaign can draw a sharp contrast between President Trump’s achievements and President Joe Biden’s perceived failures.
Mr. Gingrich encourages Republicans and the former president to outline a vision that includes improving Americans’ standard of living, addressing issues like illegal immigration, drugs, and crime, reforming the education system, strengthening the military, and fostering breakthroughs in areas like artificial intelligence, health care, and space exploration.
This optimistic layer aims to inspire voters with a vision of a brighter future under a second Trump term.
Ideally, Mr. Gingrich suggests that each layer of the “sandwich” strategy should receive roughly equal time and focus during the campaign.
The former speaker believes that by strategically balancing President Trump’s past success, contrasting it with Biden’s perceived failures, and projecting a positive future, the campaign could appeal to those who may not have engaged with or supported Republicans in the past.
“It is now clear that Donald Trump will be the Republican nominee,” President Biden said in a message to voters on Tuesday, after President Trump secured a win in the Republican primary in New Hampshire.
Michael Tyler, President Biden’s campaign communication manager, had a similar message, telling reporters that “we’re just looking at the reality of the data in front of us.”
“Now, coming off of Iowa and New Hampshire, you have Donald Trump who’s fully consolidated the extreme MAGA [Make America Great Again] base of the party and is marching towards the nomination,” he added.
Biden campaign manager Julie Chavez Rodriguez said in a statement that the incumbent is ready for the fight.
“Donald Trump is headed straight into a general election matchup where he'll face the only person to have ever beaten him at the ballot box: Joe Biden,” she said.
As of Thursday afternoon, with 99 percent of districts reporting, President Trump garnered around 54.3 percent of GOP primary voters in New Hampshire, per The Associated Press. Former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley received 43.2 percent.
The result is historic. President Trump received a larger share of the state’s primary vote than any past Republican presidential candidate. Former President Ronald Reagan—the only other non-incumbent Republican to get a a majority of GOP primary votes in New Hampshire—got about 50.2 percent of the primary vote in the Granite State.
The next competitive contest is scheduled for Feb. 24 in South Carolina, where Ms. Haley served two terms as governor. However, despite her ties to the state, President Trump has received endorsements from most of the state’s Republican figures, with calls building for Ms. Haley to leave the race and unify around the former president.