Fox Corp., one of the largest U.S.-based media companies, has launched a blockchain platform that will allow firms to track how their content is being used online and users to verify the source of what they see.
The Verify platform, developed in conjunction with blockchain company Polygon Labs, aims to be a game changer for online media, allowing users to verify content history and original sources through an open-source protocol. In theory, it will operate as an internet database of media content that’s cryptographically signed to establish the content’s origin and history.
“Though advances in AI have developed at a breathtaking pace, one downside of these platforms has been the rise of AI-generated media, from articles to audio to images, distinguishing truth from lies is difficult,” the blockchain company said.
“With this technology, readers will know for sure that an article or image that purportedly comes from a publisher in fact originated at the source.”
Additionally, Verify can establish a technical bridge between media companies and artificial intelligence (AI) platforms. If the platform works as advertised, media companies can register content on the platform to verify it’s theirs. Once the content is verified, usage rights can be granted to AI platforms that want to use the content to train language models that support apps such as ChatGPT. Fox and whoever else uses the platform could use it to negotiate licensing deals for content with AI companies.
“As AI-generated text and images flow more widely online, Verify will be able to help consumers not only identify the veritable source of content, but also give media publishers more control over relationships with AI platforms scraping the web,” Polygon Labs said.
Fox privately launched a beta version of the Verify protocol in August 2023, Fox Chief Information Security Officer Melody Hildebrandt said in a statement. The company began uploading content to the database during Fox News’ first Republican primary presidential debate last year.
Since then, more than 80,000 pieces of content have been assigned to the system, from Fox News, Fox Business, Fox Sports, and Fox’s local television stations.
In December 2023, The New York Times also filed a lawsuit against OpenAI and Microsoft, alleging unauthorized use of its content for training AI chatbots.
At the same time, for most of 2023, the Writers Guild of America, the Screen Actors Guild, and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists were on strike over concerns that AI tools would be used to replace real people and decimate the industry.
Some major social media companies have already taken action to control the use of AI in the short term.
Meta, the company that owns Facebook, has taken steps to rein in the use of AI during the 2024 presidential election. The tech giant has barred political campaigns and advertisers in regulated industries from using its new generative AI advertising products.