The top Republican and the Democrat on the House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) are calling on the Biden administration to add seven Chinese biotech firms to a Pentagon list of “Chinese military companies.”
The seven Chinese biotech companies are MGI Group, Complete Genomics, Innomics, STOmics, Origincell, Yazyme Biotech, and Axbio.
The two lawmakers noted that the CCP’s military and academic literature has argued that “success on the future battlefield will require ‘achieving biological dominance.’” As a result, they urged Mr. Austin to add the companies to the list.
“Urgent action is needed to identify the PRC biotechnology entities at the forefront of this work,” the letter reads, referring to China’s official name, the People’s Republic of China.
MGI Group and Complete Genomics are subsidiaries of PLA-affiliated firm BGI, according to the letter, while Innomics and STOmics are BGI’s subsidiaries operating in the United States.
“MGI uses Complete Genomics in the U.S. market to compete, often obscuring Complete Genomics’ ties to MGI, BGI, and the CCP,” the letter reads. “STOmics is a similarly situated subsidiary, making no mention of its ties to BGI on its English-language website, but STOmics Mandarin-Chinese language website proudly identifies it as a subsidiary of BGI.”
According to the letter, Origincell has ties to the CCP’s United Front Work Department (UFWD).
“Origincell was the prime supplier for a Military-Civil Fusion project to build bio-sample storage bank, and the company has hosted officials from the CCP’s United Front Work Department at their company headquarters,” it reads.
“Americans need to understand that the CCP’s United Front work is not just a distant-over-there threat. It’s a right-here-at-home threat,” Mr. Gallagher says in his video.
The two lawmakers also requested Mr. Austin attend a briefing with the Select Committee staff before May 1 about how the Pentagon will add more “problematic” Chinese biotechnology companies to its list in accordance with Section 1312 of the National Defense Act for Fiscal Year 2024.
In response to an inquiry from Reuters, the Pentagon said it didn’t have any comment.