I feel scared. Very scared.
Internet-wide surveillance and censorship, enabled by the unimaginably vast computational power of artificial intelligence (AI), is here.
This is not a futuristic dystopia. It’s happening now.
Government agencies are working with universities and nonprofits to use AI tools to surveil and censor content on the internet.
This is not political or partisan. This is not about any particular opinion or idea.
What’s happening is that a tool powerful enough to surveil everything that’s said and done on the internet (or large portions of it) is becoming available to the government to monitor all of us, all the time. And, based on that monitoring, the government—and any organization or company the government partners with—can then use the same tool to suppress, silence, and shut down whatever speech it doesn’t like.
But that’s not all. Using the same tool, the government and its public-private, “nongovernmental” partners (think, for example: the World Health Organization or Monsanto) can also shut down any activity that is linked to the internet. Banking, buying, selling, teaching, learning, entertaining, connecting to each other—if the government-controlled AI does not like what you (or your kids!) say in a tweet or an email, it can shut down all of that for you.
Unfortunately, the work of the committee is viewed, even by its own members, as largely political: Conservative lawmakers are investigating what they perceive to be the silencing of conservative voices by liberal-leaning government agencies.
Nevertheless, in its investigations, this committee has uncovered some astonishing documents related to government attempts to censor the speech of American citizens.
These documents have crucial and terrifying all-of-society implications.
Specifically, the University of Michigan is explaining to the National Science Foundation that the AI-powered tools funded by the foundation can be used to help social media platforms perform censorship activities without having to actually make the decisions on what should be censored.
Here’s how the relationship is visualized in the subcommittee’s report:
Here’s a specific quote presented in the subcommittee’s report. It comes from “Speaker’s notes from the University of Michigan’s first pitch to the National Science Foundation (NSF) about its NSF-funded, AI-powered WiseDex tool.” The notes are on file with the committee.
“Our misinformation service helps policy makers at platforms who want to ... push responsibility for difficult judgments to someone outside the company ... by externalizing the difficult responsibility of censorship,” the report reads.
This is an extraordinary statement on so many levels:
The danger posed by AI censorship applies to all young people who spend a lot of time online, because it means that their online activities and language can be monitored and used against them—maybe not now but whenever the government decides to go after a particular type of language or behavior. This is a much greater danger to a much greater number of children than the danger posed by any specific content because it encompasses all the activity they conduct online, touching on nearly every aspect of their lives.
Here’s an example to illustrate this danger: Let’s say your teenager plays lots of interactive video games online. Let’s say he happens to favor games designed by Chinese companies. Maybe he also watches others play those games and participates in chats and discussion groups about those games, in which a lot of Chinese nationals also participate.
The government may decide next month or next year that anyone heavily engaged in Chinese-designed video games is a danger to democracy. This might result in shutting down your son’s social media accounts or denying him access to financial tools, such as college loans. It might also involve flagging him on employment or dating websites as dangerous or undesirable. It might mean that he is denied a passport or put on a watchlist.
I do not know what tools we have at our disposal—other than raising awareness and trying to lobby politicians and file lawsuits to prevent government censorship and regulate the use of AI tools on the internet.