In the digital age, the educational sector is witnessing a transformative shift with the rise of generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools, such as ChatGPT, impacting teaching and learning practices.
Tauranga Boys’ College in the Bay of Plenty region in New Zealand, has been part of this change since 2023, when they allowed their student management system to interface with third-party tools like ChatGPT, as part of a nationwide school trial.
Only permitted to be used as an optional aid to generate school report comments from subject teachers, the AI tool has had mixed feedback since its integration into the school, especially surrounding privacy concerns and data collection.
The New Zealand Ministry of Education provides resources and guidance on digital technologies, including ChatGPT, to leverage technology to enhance teaching and learning, while also considering ethical usage and the impact on academic integrity.
Kit Willet, a school-wide digitech team leader and teacher of English at Selwyn College in Auckland wrote and produced a guide, “ChatGPT at School; A Guide to AI Language Models For Secondary Schools.”
Authored April 2023 with ongoing updates, this guide offers educators insights into integrating AI language models into their curriculums, covering aspects like student engagement, personalized learning, and developing critical thinking skills.
Mr. Willet said his resource was initially for Selwyn College teachers but has since gained national attention, and site data shows it has been downloaded 3,000 times.
Despite some widespread apprehension about AI from staff, parents, and the public, he said deeper engagement reveals its potential for individualized education while cautioning against neglecting fundamental skills.
The ministry recognizes that ChatGPT offers significant benefits to schools as it can process large volumes of data efficiently.
“However, they can be unreliable and can invent facts and details,” she said.
In light of this, the ministry advises schools to ensure that information generated by ChatGPT is verified by teachers who have personal knowledge of the student and can identify any inaccuracies.
Ms. Cleaver emphasized the importance of schools having robust policies and procedures concerning privacy, digital technology usage, and data security regarding the use of AI, according to the ministry’s guidance.
Integrating ChatGPT into schools will be an ongoing journey and promises to be a digitally integrated educational system focused on informed, ethical, and innovative learning.