NR | 2h 26m | Drama, Romance, Mystery, Thriller, Sci-Fi | 2024
Not so much adapted from, but more inspired by, the 1903 Henry James novella “The Beast in the Jungle,” French writer and director Bertrand Bonello’s “The Beast” is a sprawling science-fiction romantic thriller that shares a great deal of narrative and tonal overlap with many other films, but is thoroughly unique in its approach.
Almost impossible to grasp and fully digest with a single view, “The Beast” will immediately bring to mind “Total Recall,” “Blade Runner,” “Minority Report,” “Vanilla Sky,” “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,” “Cloud Atlas,” and “Mulholland Dr.”
Mr. Bonello’s choice to present the movie out of sequence is initially frustrating, in much the same manner as the narrative pathways in most of the above titles and “The Godfather Part II.” Just when the viewer might feel acclimated, Mr. Bonello shifts time frames, forcing us to begin starting over. For some audiences, this will be a deal-killer, but for others (like me), it represents a welcomed challenge.
Aiding greatly to the tone is Mr. Bonello’s choice to include non-fictional events as backdrops. For Paris, it is the 1910 floods. Los Angeles in 2014 portrays a society in the early throws of social media addiction, and in the same city 30 years later, the fallout of a second civil war and near complete control of Artificial Intelligence. So much have the machines taken over everything, that the human unemployment rate is at 67 percent. For the record, “The Beast” is decidedly anti-A.I.
In 2014, Gabrielle is a struggling single actress and Louis is a materialistic, misanthropic hothead who can’t quite figure out why he can’t find a girlfriend. Their paths cross a few times, and she shows some interest until she doesn’t. Gabrielle, Louis, and everyone they know and meet are self-absorbed and antisocial, and Gabrielle, a near-perfect physical specimen, is urged by her friend Dakota (Dasha Nekrasova) to seek out plastic surgery as even the most beautiful models and/or actresses can “always look better"—an indicator of insecurity and self-loathing.
Also popping up along the way are variations of Roy Orbison’s haunting ballad “Evergreen.”