Many Canadians encounter artificial intelligence (AI) in their daily lives without even realizing it, and the use of AI is quickly expanding. Ottawa is trying to curb the risks through regulation, though limits on the rapidly developing technology are likely to remain voluntary for years to come.
Other concerns with AI include fairness and accuracy. For example, some have questioned how AI is used to filter job applicants, and whether it’s fair for rejected applicants.
The AI industry is a homegrown one, with some of its key pioneers based in Canada, and some say it’s a national opportunity. Canada has seen more than $8.6 billion in total AI investments, according to the Deloitte report, and only the United States and Britain had more venture capital investment in AI during the period from April 1, 2022, to March 31, 2023.
But the vast majority of business organizations surveyed for the report, 86 percent, cited concerns about AI’s ethical risks. Fifty-one percent worried about AI bias and poor results. Some also worried about data privacy, cybersecurity, and job losses.
Another medical use for AI is in prosthetics. Toronto entrepreneurs have created a SmartARM that uses AI to analyze visual data from cameras and make the prosthetic respond appropriately. For example, as the prosthetic hand nears a cup handle, it moves the fingers to curl around it and take hold.
The nurse helps follow up on patient recovery after discharge. It’s one of many ways Deloitte is looking to bring AI into hospitals.
ChatGPT can write essays or any other kind of text desired.
But the deep-seated fear of AI comes not necessarily from job loss, copyright infringement, or even loss of privacy. Conversations about AI often come back to the science-fiction-inspired ideas of machines that outsmart, and overpower, humans.
“Even if there’s the slightest possibility that it might happen, we think it’s important to start researching countermeasures right away,” she said.
The panellists noted that AI pioneers such as Geoffrey Hinton and Yoshua Bengio recently suggested governments and companies spend at least a third of their AI development funding on ensuring safety and ethical use.