A group of companies that produce around a third of the world’s mining and metals output has used the World Economic Forum (WEF) meeting in Davos to commit to a “nature positive” future, laying out a five-point plan to halt the negative impact on biodiversity by 2030.
With EVs driving demand for more and larger batteries, a 20-fold surge in demand for nickel and cobalt mining is expected by 2040, while the need for copper is projected to double by 2050, despite widespread recovery and recycling of such metals.
The companies—which include major global firms such as Alcoa, Anglo American, BHP, Glencore, and Rio Tinto—are members of a WEF subgroup ICMM, a sustainable mining platform.
“The mining industry owes its very existence to nature. At a time when the health of our natural world is in peril yet the demand for critical minerals is set to soar, we have committed to significant collective action to help create a nature-positive future,” said ICMM President and CEO Rohitesh Dhawan.
The miners will also collaborate with businesses across the value chain to halt and reverse the loss of biodiversity, and restore and enhance landscapes around operating sites—something most already do.
More ambiguous is an undertaking to “change the fundamental systems that contribute to nature loss.”
A larger number of smaller mines would lead to “unintended negative impacts on water, biodiversity, local communities, and so on”, he said.
That meant the industry had to take more risks.
“Over the medium to long term, the mining industry has to get better at innovating and taking a bit more risk in deploying innovative technologies,” Mr. Henry said, citing better use of data, artificial intelligence, and new technology.
“Their monitoring and enforcement currently provide a narrow view of operator compliance and do little to deter operators from breaching conditions,” noting that “despite growth in the mining sector, the entities have reduced planned monitoring activities, shrinking planned inspection programs by 60 percent or more over the last five years.”