Say what?
According to a new study, talking faster is linked to better brain health.
“Our results indicate that changes in general talking speed may reflect changes in the brain,” Jed Meltzer, Baycrest’s Canada research chair in interventional cognitive neuroscience and the lead author of this study, said in a statement. “This suggests that talking speed should be tested as part of standard cognitive assessments to help clinicians detect cognitive decline faster and help older adults support their brain health as they age.”
To determine how talking speed might reflect brain health, the research team had 125 volunteers between the ages of 18 and 90 complete three different assessments. During the first assessment, participants wore headphones and listened to distracting words while they tried to answer questions about pictures being shown to them.
For example, when shown a picture of a bucket, they could be asked, “Does it end in ‘t’?” Meanwhile, they could hear the word “dog” as a distraction. This test assessed the ability to both recognize an image and recall its name.
In the second assessment, participants were recorded while being given one minute to describe a complex picture. Participants performed this activity twice. The research team utilized artificial intelligence software to determine how fast participants spoke and how often they paused.
For the last assessment, participants completed standard tests to establish a baseline of abilities that often decline with age and are linked to a higher risk of dementia. These abilities are basic executive functions used daily to control and coordinate other cognitive abilities, including managing conflicting information, staying focused, and avoiding distractions.
The researchers weren’t surprised to learn that older participants had more difficulty with word finding. However, they discovered that although the ability to recognize and recall an image often worsened with age, it wasn’t associated with a decline in other executive function abilities. For example, the frequency and duration of a person’s pauses to find words weren’t correlated to brain health. Rather, how quickly participants were able to name pictures and how quickly they spoke were both linked to executive function.