Tech firm G42 is shifting its focus from China to American and other Western markets following concerns raised by U.S. lawmakers about its association with the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).
“All of our China investments that were previously made are already divested. ... Because of that, of course, we have no need anymore for any physical China presence,” Xiao Peng, the chief executive of G42, said in an interview with Bloomberg published on Feb. 12.
The company’s move comes amid increasing scrutiny over its ties to Chinese business. The House Select Committee on the CCP has asked the Commerce Department to consider imposing sanctions on G42 and its subsidiaries, saying that the group “works extensively” with the Chinese regime’s military, intelligence services, and state-owned entities.
The company’s $10 billion tech fund, 42X, reportedly invested in Chinese companies, including ByteDance, the parent company of video-focused social media platform TikTok. Its stake in ByteDance was estimated at $100 million, Financial Times reported, citing research firm PitchBook.
Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-Wis.), chairman of the House Select Committee on the CCP, applauded G42’s decision to reduce its investment exposure to Chinese entities.
“There is no such thing as a private company in China, and any investment in China, particularly in blacklisted entities, only funds and facilitates the Chinese Communist Party’s human rights abuses, military build-up, and techno-totalitarian surveillance state,” Mr. Gallagher said in a Feb. 10 statement.
The company has built commercial relationships with U.S. tech giants such as Microsoft, Dell, and OpenAI. But G42 also developed ties with Chinese companies, including those sanctioned by the U.S. government, raising concerns among American officials.
“Without new restrictions against G42, the company’s extensive AI capabilities will provide much-needed analytical capacity for BGI to exploit the data it has collected from American citizens, to include millions of pregnant women,” Mr. Gallagher said in the letter.
The New York Times reported last November that U.S. intelligence officials feared G42 “could be a conduit by which advanced American technology is siphoned to Chinese companies or the government.”
“G42 has established a worldwide network of partnerships over time, including some Chinese companies. Such engagements are standard practice among global technology companies,” it said.
Nevertheless, the Gulf tech company decided to sever ties with Chinese companies in favor of U.S. partners. Mr. Xiao told Financial Times in December 2023 that the company was phasing out Chinese hardware provided by Huawei, which included processors and data centers.