In 15 minutes of techno-evolutionary time, artificial intelligence-powered systems will threaten our civilization. Yesterday, I didn’t think so; I do now.
Today, Mom gets a text message demanding a ransom, threatening that the caller will torture her child to death before her eyes. “Click on the link,” the text says. She clicks through, and there in full color is her child, tied to a chair, wearing familiar clothes. The child calls out for Mom to help, and the torture begins. The screams, the cries of the child, all very real—Mom’s worst nightmare is happening.
Click on the link to electronically send money, or the torture continues. Mom has no time to research if this horror is real. The child is at a camp 300 miles away. Mom pays. The torture stops. The child tearfully thanks Mom and is let go. All on full-color, clear video.
Multiply the same scenario by 1 million. Every day, a million of these texts with videos are sent to a million parents. Kidnapping, torture, ransom demands. Every day. Seem far-fetched? Hardly. For AI systems, doing the same thing once or a million times is nothing special. Remember, that’s the power of AI: Do something sophisticated fast and in huge quantities.
As the criminal mind speeds ahead of society’s responses, any number of criminal deceptions and frauds can be executed nearly flawlessly using totally believable AI-generated animations of people, animals, or machines. Something as mundane as getting a former supervisor’s glowing video reference when you apply for a job—AI delivers the fully animated boss. The boss, in his or her own voice, will even answer questions on the Zoom call. You get the job because of the boss’s praise.
Can smart programmers build AI systems to detect fake AI-generated text, pictures, and videos? Yes, but only up to a point. The fakers can tweak their AI systems to escape other AI detection. The evolution of computer viruses proves that fighting such changing sophisticated threats is a nonstop challenge.
(A) powerful equipment that can do good or evil; and
Consider the basics. Our system of laws and courts is supposed to help keep the peace by deterring intentional and negligent actions that harm people. It also aims to provide the unlawfully harmed victims with some kind of redress, such as forcing a correction of a situation or awarding monetary damages.
To use the civil court system means individual harmed people have to file lawsuits and slog through the courts. Groups of people with near identical claims can file “class-action” lawsuits, but these must likewise proceed through the courts, typically for years.
Constant monitoring of all computer and telephonic systems, looking for suspicious activity and communications, will “make sense.” So will monitoring people’s locations, meetings, movements, employment, friends, and financial transactions. After all, we’re trying to prevent millions of terrible AI crimes.