When it comes to legislative decisions, there is no state in the country more conservative than Alabama. According to a report from the Center for Legislative Accountability, Alabama’s lawmakers voted from “a conservative position” 74 percent of the time last year, the highest level in the nation. And if anyone is worried that the introduction this year of gambling legislation is going to start the state’s slide left, they aren’t paying attention to a slew of conservative bills now being considered at the state house in Montgomery.
“I’m happy the people I serve with haven’t forgotten where they come from,” Alamaba state Rep. Matt Woods (R-Jasper) said to The Epoch Times. “We vote on the issues we bring forward, and my hope is that will be the case for a very long time.  We’re not going to be easily swayed on any issue. We look at things based on their merits. We stick to our beliefs.”
Some in the Alabama Senate are calling for committee consideration this week for a comprehensive gambling proposal that would allow lottery tickets, legalized sports betting, and up to 10 casinos with table games and slot machines. The House has already passed the measure and has the backing of Gov. Kay Ivey.
“Alabama has stood strong for morality and human thriving. People tend to slide towards more liberal living and more loose morality.  It’s the power of temptation,” he said. But the lobbyist also attributed the moral backbone that has propped up Alabama’s long-term socially conservative reputation to the state’s religious leanings.
“It’s been our churches. Not the buildings. The people. It’s the Christians in our state that hold to a standard of morality that’s more beneficial to others’ lives and we try to protect innocence.”
Alabama church life is dominated by those affiliated with the Southern Baptist Convention. The state has 3,219  Southern Baptist churches, with services in more than 30 languages. It’s also one of the reasons Alabama has one of the most restrictive abortion laws in the country, banning the procedure with minimal exceptions. The Alabama Baptist Convention is one of the main funders of Davis’s ALCAP group.
But Alabama has gained national and nefarious attention in the past few weeks for a state supreme court decision that frozen embryos are considered children. This decision has all but shut down In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) clinics across the state.
But while the Alabama legislature continues to promote bills they believe are best for the state’s citizens, Mr. Woods says he’s a little concerned those citizens are more interested in issues far from Alabama.