The most significant strategic alliance created since the end of the Cold War—the Australia-United Kingdom-United States (AUKUS) security pact—is considering adding Japan to the framework. At the same time, the alliance’s initial pillar increasingly seems destined to fail.
What this means is that Australia’s nuclear attack submarine program is likely to be significantly constrained.
The foundation pillar of AUKUS, the reason the pact was created, was to facilitate the acquisition of technology to allow Australia to build its own nuclear-powered attack submarines (SSNs).
Meanwhile, having begun that initial stage, the alliance is now working on “Pillar Two” of its framework: transferring other strategically significant technologies between the member states. Pillar Two is working well, with significant benefits to the United States, the UK, and Australia. The Royal Australian Navy (RAN) personnel are now training in the United Kingdom and the United States on nuclear submarine operations as part of Pillar One, and engineers from Australia are working with their UK and U.S. counterparts. However, all the very expensive work on the technology transfer process cannot cover the flaws in the initial vision.
Put simply, there is no strategy behind the process. There are plans, but nothing that takes into account the broader global strategic framework that will govern the threat and opportunity contexts that will apply to Australia and its alliance partners in the program’s 70-year-plus timeframe. Neither is the program being considered in light of the imbalance it must inevitably bring to the Australian defense budget.
Australia’s defense white papers and reports, including the most recent study released in February titled “Enhanced Lethality Surface Combatant Fleet: Independent Analysis of Navy’s Surface Combatant Fleet,” do not rise to the level of national-level strategy thinking or “grand strategy.” Subsequent Australian governments of the major parties themselves have issued no grand strategy-level guidance.
It was in this framework that the Australian government and the RAN pivoted to the nuclear submarine option when its earlier plans to build a new, blue-water conventional submarine—which politically, ultimately, and belatedly centered around an unproven French pump-jet propulsion design, the Shortfin Barracuda (later renamed the Attack-class)—collapsed and was canceled on Sept. 16, 2021, after an expenditure of many billions of dollars and considerable wasted time.
This is not to deny the fact that SSN capabilities could be of great strategic value to Australia if they were available in the short term. But Australia is looking at the current and immediate future threat environment, essentially from communist China, and should have considered SSNs decades ago. After all, the first SSN was delivered to the U.S. Navy (SSN-571, USS Nautilus) 70 years ago this year, not long after Australia participated with the United States, UK, and Canada in the World War II nuclear programs.
What is significant is that the Australian government and the RAN want to have the firepower and prestige of a nuclear attack submarine capability but without a commensurate national strategy of where Australia wishes to position itself for security and growth.
Australia, under Pillar One of AUKUS, has committed to the purchase of three to five U.S. Virginia-class SSNs (an initial three, followed by an option for two more) and the acquisition from the UK of five SSN-AUKUS type SSNs (being referred to now as SSN-A in the UK) being developed as a follow-on to the Royal Navy’s Astute-class SSNs. Two of the RAN’s vessels would be built in the UK, with Australia then building three follow-on vessels in South Australia.
That does not include absorbing the billions lost with the French program), and may well be a minimum level of cost. However, no one, including the Australian government, has a full grasp of the future costs of the SSN project. And given the current challenges for the Australian Defense Force and the costs of doubling the surface combatant fleet (now underway), the strain on the defense budget may be intolerable, especially considering that defense spending suffers as governments in Australia typically retract their promises in favor of social programs. Current defense spending is estimated at 2.04 percent of GDP. Again, we are looking at seeing budget-distorting expenditure levels in a future in which the threat environment is likely to change substantially.
Moreover, the process envisages sustained linear growth in the Australian economy, something that cannot be taken for granted given global economic trends, the continued distortion of the Australian economy, and declining productivity.
The bottom line assessment must be that some aspects of the Australian nuclear submarine program will fall by the wayside. The RAN may probably acquire some used Virginia-class SSNs from the U.S. Navy, much like the Indian Navy muddled through leases with former Soviet SSNs. It seems likely that the purchase of follow-on (newly built) Virginias may be scrapped and that the purchase of UK-built SSN-AUKUS boats may also fail to materialize.
On an extremely positive level for the country, despite the initial claims by the Australian prime minister of the time, Scott Morrison (Liberal Party), that the acquisition of nuclear-powered submarines would not lead to the creation of an onshore civil nuclear power industry, the reality was that the “nuclear barrier” was broken in Australia, and discussion of civil nuclear power has received widespread public enthusiasm.
Even before the Federation in 1901, Australia had its military operating abroad (from the Boxer Rebellion to the Boer War and Sudan), and it operated with its ground forces, navy, and air force globally in every major 20th-century conflict. It was able to do so before the advent of nuclear-powered submarines and can continue in that tradition, with or without nuclear-powered vessels. Nuclear-powered vessels would be a desirable enhancement for the RAN, but work on this should have begun after World War II, as it did with the UK, the United States, and the Soviet Union. Australia’s entry into the field of nuclear engineering is belated but necessary, but it may not be able to save Australia’s immediate submarine dilemma at this stage.
More significantly, the Australian government has, particularly in the post-World War II era, dominated the defense industrial capacity of the nation, essentially destroying the innovative and cost-effective private sector capability to build complete platforms and invent new systems. It forced the breakup and sale of Australia’s defense industrial base to support its subordination into major U.S., UK, and European defense companies, unnecessarily denying Australians control over their national security base. The Australian Defense Force has been complicit in this, preferring the acquisition of foreign options, with all the implicit strategic dependency that this creates.
Costs of Australian defense procurement, then, have reached disproportionately high levels, rationalized away by statements such as “Australian wages are higher than elsewhere in the world,” implying that U.S., British, German, Swedish, and Japanese workers are somehow paid 10 times less than Australians. It is true that, despite labor-saving computing and the like, Australia (like the United States and Europe) has seen a progressive decline in per capita productivity over the past decade.