Amazon is ditching its “Just Walk Out” technology that allows customers to shop and leave stores without having to visit a typical physical checkout, company officials have confirmed.
Instead, the Seattle-based company will replace the technology with smart carts, also known as “dash carts,” through which customers can skip the checkout line.
That technology, effectively a scanner integrated into a shopping cart, also provides additional benefits, such as allowing consumers to scan their items as they shop and see their spending in real time via an onscreen receipt.
An Amazon spokesperson confirmed the change in an emailed statement to The Epoch Times, noting the decision will only affect Amazon Fresh locations—the company’s online and physical grocery stores—and not Amazon Go convenience stores.
The company stated that it is also keeping Just Walk Out technology in place at a small number of Fresh stores in the UK.
The decision will not affect the more than 130 third-party retailers that Amazon partners with across the United States, the UK, Australia, and Canada for its Just Walk Out technology across locations, including cafes, airports, stadiums, entertainment venues, conference centers, and schools, the spokesperson said.
“We’ve also heard from customers that while they enjoyed the benefit of skipping the checkout line with Just Walk Out, they also wanted the ability to easily find nearby products and deals, view their receipt as they shop, and know how much money they saved while shopping throughout the store.”
According to its official website, Amazon’s “Just Walk Out” technology—first rolled out in 2016—allows consumers to “enter a store, grab what they want, and get going” by scanning their card or hovering their palm over an Amazon One device when they enter the store.
They are then able to leave without having to visit a formal checkout, thanks to cameras, sensors, and deep-learning artificial intelligence that track consumers visiting the stores.
The technology is used not only in Amazon’s own physical stores but also in third-party retail, travel, and stadium environments, according to the website.
However, the technology hasn’t always proven to be reliable, with some customers complaining that it often took hours to receive their receipts after leaving the stores, according to reports.
Amazon currently operates more than 40 Fresh grocery stores across the United States, the majority of which are in California, Illinois, Virginia, and Washington state.
Approximately 27 of those stores have Just Walk Out technology and will transition to Amazon Dash Cart, according to the company. The remaining stores already use Amazon Dash Cart, the retailer stated.
According to its official website, Amazon Dash Cart—first unveiled in 2020—is a smart cart that can be accessed by customers using a QR code on their Amazon app.
The technology uses a combination of computer vision algorithms and sensor fusion technology to scan items placed in and removed from the carts and shows real-time receipts of all items in the cart via an attached screen. After purchasing their items, customers can simply exit the store through the Amazon Dash Cart lane and their payment is processed using the credit card associated with their Amazon account.