Prime Minister Justin Trudeau met with Italy’s PM, Giorgia Meloni, on March 2 in Toronto where the pair agreed on “enhanced cooperation” between the two countries. A scheduled reception later in the day for the two G7 leaders was cancelled as pro-Palestinian protesters blocked entrances to the event venue.
During a brief media conference before their meeting earlier in the day, the two leaders spoke about the pertinent issues, including artificial intelligence, migration, labour, and manufacturing.
“Canada and Italy are so aligned on so many things,” Mr. Trudeau said.
“I’m very happy with the work we are doing today,” Ms. Meloni said. “But we are beginning a new view of our relationship trying to enhance our cooperation.”
They also said they agreed countries need to build resilience in the current global climate.
“Canada and Italy can work strategically towards this goal. ... We welcome our strong and growing economic partnership that generates sustainable economic growth, jobs, and innovation in both our countries,” the statement said.
“This Roadmap will set out ambitious, concrete plans to collaborate, over the next 3-5 years, in priority areas, including energy security and the shift to a sustainable energy future, climate change and biodiversity, migration, sustainable economic growth, and research and innovation, including on artificial intelligence.”
Ms. Meloni and Mr. Trudeau will meet again in Italy in June where they will review “progress on the development of the Roadmap.”
The statement said the two countries have economies that are “complementary” and rely on small- and medium-sized businesses.
Italy is the second-largest trading partner Canada has in the European Union after Germany, with trade reaching $15.8 billion in 2023. About 1.6 million Canadians are of Italian descent.
Canada and Italy are both part of the G7, and have also agreed to work cooperatively to uphold “rules-based international order, grounded on the UN charter; protecting international peace and security; and promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms.”
During the G7 summit in Japan last May, Mr. Trudeau levelled criticism at Ms. Meloni over “some of the positions Italy is taking on in terms of LGBT rights.” He was reacting to her government’s move to limit the recognition of parental rights to only the biological parent in families with same−sex parents.
Ms. Meloni later rejected Mr. Trudeau’s comments, saying he was a victim of “fake news.”
On March 2, Ms. Meloni mentioned a number of her priorities as Italy leads the G7 in 2024, including concerns around artificial intelligence, the role of the Indo−Pacific, and respecting the international rules−based order.
She also highlighted support for Ukraine and “this very difficult Middle East crisis,” where she said it’s important to avoid escalation.