Did you see Ben Shapiro’s reaction about how artificial intelligence (AI) can now create videos of anyone doing anything, anywhere?
It’s no big deal if you didn’t. Besides, you’ve probably already seen deepfake videos portraying events that never happened in feeds from the wars in Gaza and Ukraine. The videos are so realistic that neither you nor I can tell that they’re fake.
In fact, you can now watch a video, clear as a bell, of a person who is no longer alive. That person can be with you, on screen, talking to you, interacting with you as well.
There are a couple of phrases that come to mind. “Mass deception” is one. “The very best in fake news” is another. “The end of reality” is a third one, but does it seem rather over-the-top?
You may not, as it was yanked because of lots of pushback from the conservative side after just a couple of weeks as a division of the Department of Homeland Security. But the point is that it was there, and given the direction in which things are headed, care to bet that it won’t return as the deepfakes begin to hit the fan in this election year?
War is declared, many of our rights are suspended, food is rationed, money is issued in fixed amounts, and anyone complaining about “the new reality” gets sent to a “change-your-attitude” camp, or worse?
All that—and certainly much more—could be deepfaked with AI and disseminated to all of us over all of the “trusted and verified” news networks that have been approved by a newly re-branded Disinformation Governance Board.
The trope that in order to save our democracy, we had to kill it might not even be necessary.
What may be necessary, however, to make the DGB’s job (by the way, what does the “DGB” remind you of?) easier and more manageable would be to limit the sources of news to those approved news outlets that tell the approved truth.
And the others, like this one?
I can hear it now, for the sake of election integrity, unapproved news sources will be scrubbed from the internet. They’ll quickly be de-platformed, de-monetized, and de-based, meaning they will no longer have an audience, and nor do you have a say on reality, what’s real and what’s fake.
They’ve done it before. Remember how free speech was essentially banned over the internet?
That subtle distinction may soon become the dividing line for how we live our lives. We may see news feeds that look “realistic,” but we will have to ask ourselves, “Are they, in fact, real?”
Realism may become the primary value of news, with reality discarded as nothing more than an artifact of a bygone world.