Imagine a routine blood test that could detect cancer in its earliest stages—before it overwhelms the body’s ability to control it.
The research uses machine learning—specifically an algorithm called Alu Profile Learning Using Sequencing, or A-Plus, to detect Alu elements in the blood—a type of repetitive DNA.
Christopher Douville is an assistant professor of oncology at Johns Hopkins Medicine and the study’s lead author.
“Blood testing holds great promise for the earlier detection of cancers before people exhibit any symptoms,” Mr. Douville said in a news release. “However, analyzing results with machine learning has not necessarily translated into long-term success for patients when minor fluctuations produce widely different predictions in these complex models. To have a long-term impact on patient care, physicians and patients must have confidence that models consistently and reproducibly classify cancer status. In our manuscript, we evaluated 1,686 individuals multiple times to assess whether our machine learning model consistently delivers the same answer.”
When asked how the addition of machine learning, or AI (artificial intelligence) is beneficial in detecting Alu elements in the blood, Mr. Douville told The Epoch Times via email, “AI can integrate hundreds of thousands of predictive features to detect complex patterns. The underlying patterns can often be missed using conventional approaches.”
Another benefit of using AI is reducing the risk of false positive results, Mr. Douville explained, saying, “Machine learning can identify complex patterns often missed using more conventional approaches. Given how difficult it is to identify trace amounts of cancer in the blood, machine learning offers a way to increase sensitivity.”
Researchers collected 3,105 blood samples from people with solid cancers and 2,073 from people without cancer—but used a total of 7,615 samples so that duplicates could be used to test the model’s function and precision. The study screened for 11 types of cancer, including breast, colon and rectum, esophagus, lung, liver, pancreas, ovary, and stomach cancer.
Notably, most of the samples from those with cancer had the disease in its early stages and had either few or no metastases at the time they were diagnosed.
After testing, researchers reached 98.9 percent specificity. “This is crucial when screening asymptomatic patients, so people aren’t told incorrectly that they have cancer,” Mr. Douville noted in the news release.
The technique uses something called fragmentomics, which “looks at the pattern of the amount and sizes of DNA fragments in the blood,” according to the National Cancer Institute. “Fragmentomics requires about eight times less blood than required by whole genome sequencing,” Cristian Tomasetti, a corresponding author of the study and director of City of Hope’s Center for Cancer Prevention and Early Detection explained in the press release.
Kamel Lahouel is the study’s co-first author and an assistant professor in TGen’s Integrated Cancer Genomics Division. “Our technique is more practical for clinical applications as it requires smaller quantities of genomic material from a blood sample. Continued success in this area and clinical validation opens the door for the introduction of routine tests to detect cancer in its earliest stages.”
Could searching for Alu’s potentially lead to detecting all types of cancer in the future? Mr. Douville says, “In our study, we only evaluated 11 different types of solid cancers but have reason to believe this could generalize to additional cancers.”
Using Alu elements represents a new way to detect cancer earlier and potentially improve patient outcomes.