TSMC’s sharing of cutting-edge semiconductor technology with neighboring Japan would help improve the geopolitical status of Taiwan and Japan while facing potential threats from the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).
Taiwan’s newly elected president and current vice president, Lai Ching-Te, hailed the plant’s construction and commissioning as significant for deepening the Taiwan–Japan industrial alliance and taking on the next era in computer technology together.
He recalled that TSMC was invited by Japan in 2019 to build a factory in Japan and officially announced it in November 2021. Construction began in April 2022. Usually, it would take three years to complete construction of such a plant, but it was completed in less than two years and will start mass production this year.
JASM occupies an area of about 2,292,000 square feet and is expected to have a monthly production capacity of 55,000 wafers.
TSMC’s semiconductor plant in Kikuyo Town, Kumamoto Prefecture, represents a total investment of $8.6 billion, and the Japanese government has positioned the semiconductor as an essential material for the country’s economic security, subsidizing the project with around $3.17 billion.
The entry of JASM has brought tremendous business opportunities to the local economy, and the construction of housing and other related facilities is also in full swing.
Starting in 2022, Kumamoto University has offered specialized semiconductor courses and will establish a new School of Information Integration this year to cultivate practical human resources for the semiconductor industry.
The strategy elevates the position of the semiconductor and digital industries to a new level, indicating that given enormous changes in the global landscape, coping with economic security risks, digitalization, and greening are of increasing significance.
At the meeting, Toshiro Hiramoto, president of the association and professor at the University of Tokyo, said that in addition to TSMC’s plant in Japan, Japan is also working with the United States to develop next-generation semiconductors and build a plant in Hokkaido.
Hisashi Kanazashi, an official of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, cited Japan’s lag in digitization as a factor in the decline of its industrial competitiveness, saying it has “cost Japan 30 years.” He emphasized that cutting-edge chip technology is key to determining international competitiveness.
According to Mr. Kanazashi, Japan’s plan to revive its semiconductor industry consists of three steps: speeding up semiconductor production, establishing the foundation for collaborative research and advancement of next-generation semiconductors, and laying the groundwork for a joint future technologies boom with the rest of the world.
Moreover, Japan and the Netherlands, which have strong points in semiconductor manufacturing equipment, were called upon to synchronize with the United States. Semiconductor manufacturing equipment in this field is almost exclusively limited to these three countries.
The Biden administration later extended the restrictions in order to hinder the flow of cutting-edge semiconductor manufacturing tech to China, which risks being transferred to military technology, and to prevent the CCP’s growth in the field at all costs.