China is again seeing a disturbing trend of public figures suddenly dying. In the two months of this year, China has reported the deaths of at least 14 high-level corporate executives. All died of illness, and nine were under the age of 60.
Risuntek Inc., headquartered in Dongguan City, Guangdong Province, is a high-tech company specializing in the research and development, production, and sales of electro-acoustic products, mainly headphones and electro-acoustic products accessories.
Du Hua, the richest man in Lanling County, Shandong Province, and chairman of China Century Group Chairman, died of a sudden heart attack on Feb. 10, the first day of the Chinese New Year. He was also 50 years old.
China Century Group is engaged in a wide range of industries and businesses, including automobile trading, hospitals, logistics, and plazas. With a net worth of approximately 20 billion yuan (about $2.8 billion), Mr. Du was the richest man in his home county.
Zong Qinghou, founder and chairman of The Hangzhou Wahaha Group, the largest beverage producer in China, passed away on Feb. 25 at the age of 79.
Mr. Zong was a deputy to the 10th, 11th, and 12th National People’s Congresses and a deputy to the 12th, 13th, and 14th provincial-level congresses in Zhejiang Province. He has been awarded the title of “National Labor Model” by the Chinese authorities.
Guo Kaiji, Chairman and President of Xinglong Holding Group, passed away on Feb. 4 at the age of 76 due to illness.
Lu Hang, Chief Representative of Wearnes Group in China and President of Huaxin International Group, passed away on Jan. 16 in Zhuhai City, Guangdong Province, at the age of 73.
Mr. Lu has long worked in the real estate industry, having served as the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce Housing Industry Chamber of Commerce Executive Vice President and other positions.
Yang Changguo, Chairman of Wuhan’s Xinlinmiao Yantu Network Technology Group Company, passed away on Jan. 4 at the age of 81 due to illness.
Du Yonglin, Chairman and the actual controller of Shanchuan Xiumei Ecological and Environmental Engineering Co., Ltd., passed away on Jan. 3 at the age of 81.
On Jan. 6, 2024, the Board of Directors of Fujian Foxit Software Development Co., Ltd. announced that Ye Dongyi, an independent board director of the company, passed away recently due to illness.
Mr. Ye was a professor of science and big data at Fuzhou University. Born in February 1964, he had not turned 60 yet. Mr. Ye’s other titles included the Fujian Province Information Industry Expert Committee, Fujian Provincial Computer Society, and vice chairman of the Fujian Provincial Artificial Intelligence Society.
Fan Yongjun, an independent director of Yingjie Electric Company, passed away on Jan. 8 at the age of 47 due to illness.
The Board of Directors of Dare Power Dekor Home announced on Jan. 8 that Zhu Lei, an independent director of the company, passed away recently after a sudden illness. Mr. Zhu, who has a background in law, was born in 1984 and was only 40 years old.
The board of directors of Anhui Zhongke Automation Co., Ltd. announced on Jan. 16 that Xu Yimin, a company director, passed away due to a sudden illness and ineffective medical treatment. Mr. Xu, born in February 1965, was 59 years old.
Hebei Shen Yue Software Technology Co., Ltd. announced on Jan. 23 that Zhang Hongbin, 56, an independent director of the company, passed away due to ineffective medical treatment.
Guangzhou Gaolan Energy Saving Technology Ltd. released an announcement on Feb. 4, saying that Yang Rui, the company’s supervisor, passed away recently. Born in 1970, Mr. Yang was only 54 years old. Founded in 2001, Gaolan Energy Saving is one of China’s pioneer companies focusing on thermal management technology innovation and industrialization.