A handful of House Republicans have proposed a bill that would prohibit American tax dollars from funding the World Economic Forum (WEF) while criticizing the transnational organization and its goals as misguided, elitist, and “anti-American.”
“Forcing American Taxpayers to fund annual ski trips for insular, global elitists is absurd—not to mention reprehensible,” Rep. Scott Perry (R-Pa.), one of the bill’s sponsors, said in a statement. “The World Economic Forum doesn’t deserve one cent of American funding, and it’s past time we defund Davos.”
Joining Mr. Perry in co-sponsoring the measure are Reps. Tom Tiffany (R-Wis.), Paul Gosal (R-Az.), Diana Harshbarger (R-Tenn.), Andy Ogles (R-Tenn.), and Matt Rosendale (R-Mt.).
“The Defund Davos Act would ensure that U.S. tax dollars are not funding the World Economic Forum and their reset on our way of life,” Mr. Tiffany said in a statement.
The second part of the agenda, per Mr. Schwab, is for measures to ensure that investment is channeled to the achievement of “shared goals, such as equality and sustainability,” including in “green” infrastructure, while creating a carrot-and-stick system of incentives to force industries to meet environmental, social, and governance (ESG) metrics.
The third part of the Great Reset agenda would be to “harness the innovations of the Fourth Industrial Revolution,” such as artificial intelligence to “support the public good” and address health and social challenges by, for instance, creating mechanisms for tracing infections or tracking vaccination status.
The United States has spent millions of dollars over the years to fund the WEF and its annual conference of global elites, where the Republicans said discussions include “dystopian ideas like global solidarity and eating bugs to solve world hunger.”
The WEF and its leaders have, as Mr. Schwab has outlined in “The Great Reset,” advocated for a top-down approach to managing various threats, including by rejigging capitalism to distribute its benefits more evenly and strengthening the global architecture of multinational institutions.
Critics have said the WEF represents an attempt by international organizations to undermine national sovereignty by centralizing power and decision-making at the expense of individual freedoms and local communities.
Concerns have also been raised that the solutions proposed by the forum involve a high degree of economic interventionism by governments and social engineering by elites who critics say want to foist progressive values and beliefs on traditional-minded populations.
One of the WEF conference attendees was European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde, who has been openly critical of the former president.
“We are all concerned about it because the United States is the largest economy, the largest defense country in the world, and has been a beacon of democracy, with all its upside and downside,” she said when asked about the upcoming U.S. election during an interview with Bloomberg on Jan. 17.
“We have to be extremely attentive,” she added.
On the final day of the WEF conference, Ms. Lagarde suggested that the most effective strategy in case President Trump wins his comeback bid for the White House would be to go on the offense.
“The best defense, if that’s the way we want to look at it, is attack,” she said during a panel discussion on Jan. 19.
“To attack properly, you need to be strong at home. So being strong means having a strong, deep market, having a real single market.”
Philipp Hildebrand, former head of the Swiss central bank and current vice chairman of BlackRock, expressed similar views on the upcoming U.S. election.
“You know, we’ve been there before; we survived it, so we’ll see what it means,” Mr. Hildebrand told Bloomberg in Davos. “Certainly, from a European perspective, from a kind of globalist, Atlanticist perspective, it’s of course a great concern.”
Gordon Brown, former Prime Minister of the UK, expressed similar concerns about the threat that a Trump presidency might pose, believing it could impact not only the United States but also other countries.
“I’m worried about the threat of a Trump presidency,” he told CNBC at the Swiss ski resort on Jan. 17.
For his part, President Trump has traveled to Davos twice, in 2018 and 2020, to attend the WEF meetings.