OpenAI reinstated Sam Altman to its board of directors after a comprehensive review, the company board announced.
“We have unanimously concluded that Sam and Greg are the right leaders for OpenAI,” Bret Taylor, chair of the OpenAI board, announced on March 8.
The move came after less than half a year ago, its previous board suddenly dismissed Mr. Altman, saying it lost confidence in him to lead the company. Mr. Altman’s removal was unexpected and shocked the tech industry. Greg Brockman, OpenAI’s co-founder and president, resigned in protest over Mr. Altman’s dismissal.
Just days after his dismissal, Mr. Altman and Mr. Brockman joined Microsoft for a new artificial intelligence (AI) research team at the tech giant.
Following the incident, the company’s new board set up a special committee and hired WilmerHale, an international law firm, to review the incident that led to the termination of Mr. Altman as CEO and the removal of Mr. Altman and Mr. Brockman from the previous board.
“WilmerHale reviewed more than 30,000 documents; conducted dozens of interviews, including of members of OpenAI’s prior Board, OpenAI executives, advisors to the prior Board, and other pertinent witnesses; and evaluated various corporate actions,” according to the OpenAI announcement.
“WilmerHale found there was a breakdown in trust between the prior board and Mr. Altman that precipitated the events of Nov. 17,” it concluded.
WilmerHale also found that the prior board did not expect the consequence of its termination of Mr. Altman could destabilize OpenAI, and the board’s decision was made quickly without giving Mr. Altman an opportunity to address the board’s concerns. However, the law firm noted that “the prior board acted within its broad discretion to terminate Mr. Altman,” but “his conduct did not mandate removal.”
OpenAI also revealed three new board members. They include Sue Desmond-Hellmann, former CEO of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation; Nicole Seligman, former president of Sony Entertainment; and Fidji Simo, CEO and chair of Instacart.
“The new members have experience in leading global organizations and navigating complex regulatory environments, including backgrounds in technology, nonprofit, and board governance,” OpenAI stated.