While U.S. AI continues to have advantages over China, for example, in the power of U.S. computer chips, we could become perilously dependent on the massive pool of AI talent in China that is increasingly in short supply relative to the needs of cutting-edge military and intelligence applications here at home.
Over the past several years, Beijing has used a combination of state support for domestic companies and exploitation of U.S. academic and business openness to push China ahead on some AI metrics.
The accelerating spread is even greater for the elite (top 2 percent) of AI researchers. While China graduated a few of these in 2019, the country jumped to 12 percent in 2022. On that metric, too, the United States fell from 65 percent to 57 percent over the same period.
“Traces of China’s underground chip trade can be found on such brokering sites,” The New York Times reported. “The Suzhou one, which partners with AliCloud and Tencent Cloud, is advertising computing clusters that include advanced Nvidia H100 chips, which the US has always banned from sale to China.”
With the CCP’s unprecedented and illicit access to global technologies of information and control, through, for example, the widespread adoption of AI paired with the Internet of Things, the United States and our allies are increasingly at risk. For policymakers, the concern should be whether these Chinese nationals who research AI in the United States and our allied countries are helping or hurting us more. It is certainly a “conundrum,” in which we find ourselves increasingly dependent on a country that treats us like an enemy. We have not prioritized science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) students from allied democracies, and now, the chickens are coming home to roost.
Chinese nationals in U.S. universities grew in number, and with time, U.S. universities became dependent upon them for the high tuition they paid. China has rapidly modernized because of those few who do return to China, to the point at which some of the People’s Liberation Army’s capabilities—for example, in hypersonic missiles—rival or exceed those of the United States.