Laguna Beach High School is investigating reports of nude photos of students created with artificial intelligence and then distributed.
Parents were informed last week about the photos, which are believed to have been shared among students through text messages.
Monday, the school’s principal, Jason Alleman, updated parents about the investigation and highlighted the negative impact such an incident can have on the school’s environment.
“These incidents can have a far-reaching impact on our campus culture,” Mr. Alleman said in the letter. “These actions not only compromise individual dignity but also undermine the positive and supportive environment we aim to foster at LBHS.”
A statement published by the Laguna Beach Unified School District said the safety and security of its students was the district’s top priority and that no more details would be released to protect the victims’ privacy.
No further information about the number of victims has been released nor the identity of the students responsible for creating and distributing the photos.
“We are required by law to keep student discipline matters confidential to protect the privacy and well-being of our students,” the district’s statement said. “In any situation that arises, the safety and security of our students is always our top priority.”
The high school will be hosting panel discussions this week about online privacy, and the legal and ethical considerations of sharing content. It will also cover the impact of online behavior on future opportunities and relationships and managing digital footprints.
“High school is a pivotal time for shaping students, offering us the opportunity to nurture them into empathetic individuals who are mindful of the world around them,” the district’s statement read. “Maintaining a careful balance between accountability and empathy is essential as we navigate and address critical issues.”
The incident comes after a similar scandal at a Beverly Hills School resulted in the expulsion of five eighth graders last month for having generated nude photos of their peers with artificial intelligence.