The Seven Sons have engaged in collaborations with Canadian universities and often in fields of research designated as sensitive.
Harbin Institute of Technology led with 141 collaborative titles. It was followed by the Beijing Institute of Technology with 63, Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics with 61, Beihang University with 53, Nanjing University of Science and Technology with 34, Northwestern Polytechnical University with 17, and Harbin Engineering University with 13.
FAU co-founder LJ Eads, a former U.S. Air Force intelligence officer, described Ottawa’s new measure of listing foreign institutions with potential security risks as “a proactive approach to national security.”
It aligns with a “growing global trend where countries are becoming more vigilant about protecting their technological and research advancements,” he told The Epoch Times.
“The identification of these institutions, particularly in a landscape of increasing geopolitical tensions and technology rivalry, suggests a careful balancing act between maintaining international research collaborations and protecting national interests.”
Mr. Eads said that while this policy may limit some historical collaborations contributing to scientific and technological advancements, it will do more to increase awareness among Canadian scholars and universities on the risks and implications of partnering with specific foreign entities, particularly those from China.
“It could lead to a more cautious and scrutinized approach to international collaborations, ensuring that such partnerships align with national security interests,” he said. “Universities and researchers will likely become more vigilant in their due diligence processes, assessing potential collaborations against the backdrop of these new government guidelines.”
While CIs appear to function as non-profit public educational organizations, promoting Chinese language and culture globally, they have long faced scrutiny over alleged Chinese interference with academic freedom, national security threats, and other undue Chinese Communist Party (CCP) influence.
“There is no shared research or research activity, and no sharing or exchange of intellectual property,” media relations specialist Daniel Hallen said in an email.