Bolstered by a $60 billion cash infusion, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has ramped up its enforcement activities in order to boost tax revenues, with the tax agency focusing its compliance efforts on several categories of taxpayers.
The big changes are driven in part by cutting-edge technologies, including artificial intelligence, which is meant to help IRS compliance teams better detect “tax cheats” and identify tax compliance loopholes to maximize the amount of money the agency collects from taxpayers.
According to IRS estimates, taxpayers in America pay around 85 percent of the total taxes they owe, with the difference between what is owed and what is paid known as the tax gap.
Between the years 2014 and 2016, the IRS estimated that the annual tax gap was around $496 billion.
The agency has dedicated dozens of agents to this taxpayer category in fiscal year 2024, with the IRS saying it planned to contact roughly 1,600 such taxpayers who owe hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes.
At the same time, because lower and middle-income taxpayers’ returns were simpler, their audit rates and tax intakes remained more or less constant during the years when the IRS experienced a funding crunch.
Now, thanks to the $60 billion funding boost, Mr. Werfel says the IRS is building capacity to take on higher-income filers in its compliance efforts, which he said restores balance to the tax system and makes it fairer.
“I think 400,000 is a safe distance away from where most taxpayers are,” Mr. Werfel said in the Feb. 22 interview. “And they should know that when I get up in the morning and go to sleep at night, where my focus is from an enforcement standpoint, is in those high risk areas amongst the largest corporations, the largest complex partnerships, and millionaires and billionaires.”
One of these thrusts is focused on U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies that distribute goods in the United States but don’t pay enough tax.
The second relates to the IRS Large Business & International Division’s (LB&I) Large Corporate Compliance (LCC) arm, which is being expanded and will be auditing an additional 60 big corporations with assets worth over $24 billion on average.
The IRS said it was tipped off by various types of third-party information indicating that this group of taxpayers received taxable income but failed to file a tax return.
Roughly 25,000 cases involve taxpayers who made over $1 million in income, while around 100,000 pertain to non-filers with incomes between $400,000 and $1 million.
Information on these taxpayers indicates total financial activity of over $100 billion.
The IRS said it would soon start sending letters (known as CP59 notices) to the affected taxpayers at a rate of between 20,000–40,000 per week.
The tax code allows business deductions for the expense of maintaining assets like corporate planes. However, corporate planes are often used for both business and personal travel, with personal use of business jets impacting eligibility for certain deductions.
Normally, personal use of a business jet should be included in the income of the individual traveling, with implications for the amount of taxes owed.
The IRS said on Feb. 21 that there hasn’t been enough scrutiny of this category of taxpayers, so the agency is dialing up its efforts in this area.