The next big thing in totalitarianism will be at the “macro” level: deepfake AI human impersonation show trials and forced confessions.
Typically, the CCP obtains the confessions through direct torture or threats against families.
Mr. Strittmatter recounted how the CCP’s Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI) targets dissidents. He said civil rights lawyers “must live with the constant surveillance and intimidation of family members, friends, and landlords.”
“They are regularly summoned for interrogation, placed under house arrest, put into secret or official prisons,” he said. “Some vanish without a trace for long periods, are tortured, or locked away in psychiatric hospitals.”
The CCP police dictated the confessions, and the regime used the videos “as tools of propaganda for both domestic audiences and as part of China’s foreign policy.”
Reportedly, the interviewees said the police took charge of the confessions, including dressing them in costume, writing the script and making them memorize it, giving instructions on how to deliver the lines (including, in one case, telling the person to weep), and filming multiple retakes until satisfied with the results. One interviewee said he spent seven hours on the recording of just a few minutes of broadcast.
Engage AI to study body, face, movements, and voice and then just “disappear” the person. All the regime will need is the video file to broadcast nationally or worldwide.
More importantly, as Mr. Strittmatter explained, the public confession and humiliation videos yield propaganda benefits: “The main aim of these forced TV confessions is to parade a few individuals as examples to scare the larger community into [toeing] the party line and to instill ‘discipline’ and political loyalty into the wider industry/field. A few victims are used as tools to silence the larger community they represent.”
If the public confession videos become frequent, if the regime overloads people with propaganda that can’t be countered, the regime still wins.
Mr. Strittmatter observed: “The tactic works even on those who don’t fall for the spectacle [but] see it for the theater of the absurd that it is. The staged confessions are so hair-raising, and make such a mockery of every last semblance of the rule of law, that they serve as a persuasive demonstration of the all-powerful, despotic state. Only a lunatic would dare go up against it.”
When the propaganda is so constant and at times quite horrific, even if unbelievable, the result is millions of people fully embracing their own hopelessness and condition. They can’t know the truth, so the truth doesn’t matter and never will.