House lawmakers are forming a bipartisan task force to explore how Congress can bolster safety issues and emerging threats surrounding the growing development and use of artificial intelligence (AI).
Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.) and Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.) said in a Feb. 20 press release that they have each appointed 12 members to the bipartisan Task Force on Artificial Intelligence (AI), which will explore potential legislation to address concerns relating to AI.
Each of the 24 members appointed to the task force represents “key committees of jurisdiction,” and will be jointly led by Republican chairman Jay Obernolte (R-Calif.) and Democratic co-chair Ted Lieu (D-Calif.), both of whom have experience in AI, lawmakers said.
Mr. Obernolte earned his master’s degree in AI and owns a video game development company while Mr. Lieu last year used the chatbot ChatGPT to write a bill aimed at regulating AI, NBC News reports.
The task force will be responsible for writing a comprehensive report that will include guiding principles, recommendations, and bipartisan policy proposals on how the United States can maintain leadership in AI innovation while safeguarding against threats posed by the fast-moving technology.
The report will be developed in consultation with committees of jurisdiction, the two lawmakers said.
“Because advancements in artificial intelligence have the potential to rapidly transform our economy and our society, it is important for Congress to work in a bipartisan manner to understand and plan for both the promises and the complexities of this transformative technology,” Speaker Mike Johnson said.
“The members appointed to this task force bring a wide range of experience and expertise across the committees of jurisdiction and I look forward to working with them to tackle these issues in a bipartisan way,” the Democrat said.
The robocalls featured an AI-generated clone of President Biden’s voice.
In 2020, two conservative provocateurs—John M. Burkman, and Jacob Alexander Wohl—allegedly made more than 1,100 unlawful robocalls warning people that voting by mail could lead to their personal information being published on a public database used by law enforcement officials to track down old warrants and by credit card companies to collect outstanding debts.