Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chair Gary Gensler warned that a centralized artificial intelligence (AI) could produce a “fragile” financial system.
One of America’s top financial regulators highlighted that current developments could lead to a “monoculture,” with thousands of financial actors depending on central data or a single platform.
“Count up on the fingers of one hand how many cloud providers we have in the U.S., and in even fewer fingers on the hand how many platforms we have to do search, dominant search in this world,” he said on Jan. 17.  “I believe it is likely inevitable that we will have, measured on the fingers of one hand, if not two or three, large base models, and separately the data aggregators.”
He conceded that the SEC and other U.S. financial regulations do not possess the oversight over “central nodes” that the finance sector would be dependent on for information.
Mr. Gensler emphasized the need for a diversified system. If not, the financial system would become “pretty fragile.”
“And if those nodes have it wrong, the monoculture goes one way, well, then there’s a risk in this society and the financial sector at large,” he added. “Diversity of models and diversity of data sources. Otherwise, you end up with a pretty fragile system.”
However, the prevalence of AI has Mr. Gensler fearing that the financial markets could endure another dot-com bubble of the late 1990s as companies hype AI and then proceed to overpromise and mislead to catch investors’ attention.
But many of the worries shared by Mr. Gensler return to the idea of a “monoculture” as financial markets rely on very few models to make what they perceive to be sound investment decisions based on limited data. But while AI could revolutionize the economy, it could also dramatically transform how traders invest by exploiting massive data sets for predictive capabilities.
“I do think we will in the future have a financial crisis,“ he told the newspaper. ”In the after-action reports, people will say ‘Aha! There was either one data aggregator or one model we’ve relied on.' Maybe it’s in the mortgage market. Maybe it’s in some sector of the equity market.”
“In most scenarios, AI will likely worsen overall inequality, a troubling trend that policymakers must proactively address to prevent the technology from further stoking social tensions,” said IMF director Kristalina Georgieva in a Jan. 14 blog post.
In advanced economies, as much as 60 percent of jobs could be affected by AI, with many of them disappearing.
“For the other half, AI applications may execute key tasks currently performed by humans, which could lower labour demand, leading to lower wages and reduced hiring,” Ms. Georgieva wrote.