“It really is a vaccine that’s relevant across all age groups,” she insisted.
What she hinted at during the call but didn’t disclose was that Moderna already had a sprawling media operation in place aimed at identifying and responding to critics of vaccine policy and the drug industry. A series of internal company reports and communications reviewed by RealClearInvestigations (RCI) show that Moderna has worked with former law enforcement and public health officials and a drug industry-funded nongovernmental organization called The Public Good Projects (PGP) to confront the “root cause of vaccine hesitancy” by rapidly identifying and “shutting down misinformation.”
Part of this effort includes providing talking points to some 45,000 health care professionals “on how to respond when vaccine misinformation goes mainstream.” PGP and Moderna have created a new partnership, called the “Infodemic Training Program,” to prepare health care workers to respond to alleged vaccine-related misinformation.
Emails from that period show that PGP routinely sent Excel lists of accounts to amplify on Twitter and others to deplatform, including populist voices such as ZeroHedge.
The messages also suggested emerging narratives to remove from the platform.
“People opposed to vaccines are capitalizing on the NYT [New York Times] article about the [Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)] withholding vaccine information. The articles do not contain misinformation themselves but are using the news to further prove the CDC is untrustworthy,” Savannah Knell, PGP’s senior director of partnerships, wrote in an email to a Twitter lobbyist in September 2022.
In another email the following month, Kaitlyn Krizanic, PGP’s senior program manager, told Twitter to be on the lookout for “reports that Sweden is no longer recommending the vaccine for children.” In some cases, conservative accounts expressing outrage at restrictive pandemic policies, such as vaccination passports, were deemed by PGP as “misinformation” that warranted removal.
The Moderna Reports consistently show the company raising red flags about those reporting documented side effects of the vaccine the biotech company was selling. Such concerns, which may be typical of corporate public relations efforts that want their product shown in the best light, take on a darker cast when it involves medicine injected into people’s bodies.
The Public Good Projects and Moderna didn’t respond to repeated requests for comment.
In an internal email sent last July, Moderna notified its team of its latest efforts to shape the vaccine debate.
“We have partnered with PGP (The Public Good Projects) and Moderna’s Global Intelligence, Corporate Security, Medical Affairs, Corporate Communications, Clinical Safety and Pharmacovigilance teams to provide media monitoring for misinformation at scale,” wrote Marcy Rudowitz, the company’s customer program lead. “If and when a response is needed, our team will notify the appropriate stakeholders with recommendations.”
The extent to which the company may intervene to shape content decisions isn’t clear. PGP continues to boast close relations with establishment institutions, including major medical associations.
Moderna, perhaps more than other drug firm, is overwhelmingly reliant on the continued success of its vaccine. The company announced a price hike of up to $130 per dose this month, far higher than the $15 to $26 for U.S. government contracts, according to The Wall Street Journal.
“We’re expecting a 90 percent reduction in demand,” Moderna CEO Stéphane Bancel said when he was asked to defend the decision. “As you can see, we’re losing economies of scale.”
“Fears about side effects and long-term dangers are major reasons parents report not vaccinating their children,” the report states.
It further concluded that “resistance to COVID-19 vaccines for children can be a gateway to broader anti-vaccine beliefs.”
“It’s nice to know Moderna is watching me,” Mr. Berenson said when asked about his response to the revelations. “I’m watching them, too. mRNA shots carry unacceptably high heart risks for teenagers and young adults. Nearly the entire rest of the world accepts this reality and now discourages or bans people under 50 from taking mRNA Covid boosters. It is unconscionable that Moderna and Pfizer continue to market them to non-elderly adults.
Moderna has closely monitored Mr. Brand’s criticism of the drug industry.
Moderna noted that they weren’t yet taking action on this broadcast, but “we are monitoring with our partner, the Public Good Projects.”
The following month, several media outlets reported that several women who insisted on anonymity were claiming that Mr. Brand had abused them nearly 20 years ago. The ensuing media firestorm, which led to YouTube demonetizing his account, became fodder for other Moderna misinformation reports. The company warned that the cancellation of Mr. Brand was sparking a backlash among social media users, who believed that he may have been targeted by government and corporate censors for his outspoken opposition to pandemic narratives.
Despite his work on the issue, Moderna dismissed Mr. Shellenberger in its reports as among its known “misinformation authors.”
“Moderna has spent years spreading disinformation about their vaccines, and so it makes sense that they would smear the scientists and journalists who expose them as conspiracy theorists and sources of misinformation,” Mr. Shellenberger told RCI.
“The question is why is Moderna spreading disinformation on the high probability that Covid escaped from the Wuhan Institute of Virology lab?
Other reports flag skeptics of vaccine efficiency and potential side effects. In September 2023, Moderna’s system cited Megyn Kelly, podcaster and former Fox News host, for a viral clip in which she said she regrets the COVID-19 booster after she developed an autoimmune condition that she believes was caused by the shot.
The merging of public health and corporate influence peddling has concerned many academics. Jay Bhattacharya, a professor of health policy at Stanford University who says the government violated his free speech rights by trying to silence his questioning of federal policies regarding COVID-19, told RCI, “We have a problem that social media companies and the government have allied with pharma to treat information flows around the COVID vaccine as a propaganda problem, rather than a medical issue that is best resolved by patients talking with their doctor about what’s best for them.”
Mr. Bhattacharya was one of the most prominent academics who was shadowbanned under the previous owners of Twitter because of his criticism of the lockdowns and masking policy. He’s now one of the plaintiffs litigating against the U.S. government’s role in shaping content decisions on social media platforms in the Missouri v. Biden case, which is now before the Supreme Court.
In the attached report, Moderna noted that it had highlighted the tweet and others like it because “concerns about safety and side effects are among the main reasons parents are hesitant about or oppose COVID-19 vaccines for their children.”
In other words, anything that might discourage children from vaccinations, despite any risks or lack of benefits, is dangerous information. That suggests a motive far from bringing truth to the vaccine debate and far more about dominating it for financial gain.
Near the end of the Moderna call in September 2023, as the biotech firm worked to highlight its stepped-up outreach to consumers, James Mock, chief financial officer, spoke briefly to assure investors of the company’s ability to continue to make money.