A Medicare Advantage plan is a one-stop shop alternative to original Medicare. Private insurance companies offer these plans. They contract with Medicare to provide Part A and Part B benefits. They sometimes also offer Part D, which are prescriptions.
The network is in your primary home area. This makes it inconvenient if you have a secondary home in another location. You might find that coverage is denied, or you'll have to pay extra. And that’s assuming a health care provider will take you.
If you need a psychiatrist in a Medicare Advantage plan, you might be out of luck. A Health Affairs study found that almost half of the counties reviewed didn’t have a Medicare Advantage-participating psychiatrist.
Medicare Advantage plans do limit your annual out-of-pocket costs. This is called the maximum out-of-pocket (MOOP). Once this limit has been met you don’t pay for covered services.
In 2024, Medicare Advantage plan providers cannot set a MOOP any higher than $8,850. This is up from $8,300 in 2023. They can set lower MOOPs, but there’s a relationship between the plan’s price and the MOOP’s amount.
Under the guise of scientific rigor, insurers are using unregulated prediction AI to determine when they can plausibly terminate treatment. This generally affects older patients.
It has often delayed the treatment of seriously ill patients. These patients are not aware that AI has determined their care. Doctors have disputed many of the AI’s determinations.
Medicare Advantage insurers claim that the AI algorithm provides personalized care and better outcomes. But, many patient advocates disagree. Some AI recommendations fail to adjust for individual patient’s circumstances. There is also a conflict with basic rules on what Medicare plans must cover.
David Lipschutz, associate director of the Center for Medicare Advocacy, made a statement about AI. He said, “There’s no deviation from it, no accounting for changes in condition, no accounting for situations in which a person could use more care.”
The result is that the CMS has issued a request for information (RFI) from the public. The CMS wants to strengthen its data capabilities and guide policymaking with the information gathered from the RFI.