E-commerce giant Amazon has just launched new tech that makes it far easier to sign up for its palm-scanning payment service, sparking renewed concerns among privacy experts, with some warning that it’s another pebble in the growing rock pile of big tech-enabled, Orwell-style digital enslavement.
Amazon announced on March 28 that it had just launched a new app that lets first-time users of its Amazon One biometric payment service sign up for it from the comfort of their home (instead of having to do it at a physical store) by taking a photo of a hand and uploading it to Amazon’s servers.
“Until today, customers had to visit a physical location to hover their palm over an Amazon One device to sign up for the service,” the company said in a statement. “Now, they can sign up for Amazon One from home, work, or on-the-go.”
The benefit for users, according to Amazon, is convenience. Retailers are promised benefits including faster lines and “more frictionless in-store experience,” stated Amazon, whose palm scanners are found in numerous retail locations across the country and have been used more than 8 million times.
When Amazon first announced in 2020 that it was rolling out its biometric payment service, a number of privacy experts sounded the alarm, with some calling it a “terrible idea” because there are few laws to hold big tech accountable for keeping Americans’ sensitive personal information safe, or from preventing them from selling it to others or abusing it in other ways.
Much of the renewed criticism centers on the idea that Amazon is making it easier to harvest more personal data that could, potentially, be exploited as part of a tech-enabled system of social surveillance and control.
“We have not implemented the Chinese system here fully yet,” Mr. Lindsay said. “If we had, we wouldn’t be having this conversation.”
The basic idea that he outlined for how a “digital cattle” system would work effectively is because of several pieces: UBI, a social credit system that’s tied to financial rewards and punishments, a bonus system that sits on top of UBI that gives extra rewards for “excellent social credit,” and an “‘education’ system that locks kids in.”
Mr. Lindsay, who has been a vocal critic of “wokeism” in education, said the key to making the system of digital enslavement work is data.
“The oligarchs need enough information to know what their cattle need to keep functioning but also tons of information to know how to contour and control them into the ideal subjects and consumers their system needs to sustain itself,” he wrote in one of his posts.
Mr. Lindsay said this network of digital mechanisms of social control would be stacked against users, rewarding them in “extremely fake” and meaningless ways such as in video games, while the punishments could be very real.
“So, you don’t fly, you don’t travel, you eat bugs and lentils, you turn in your neighbors, you watch propaganda, you take the data-harvesting quizzes or play the data-harvesting games, etc., and you get special bonus credits above a basic allotment you can sell for perks,” he wrote.
While Amazon didn’t respond to a request for comment on the criticism of its artificial intelligence-powered palm-scanning payment service, it said in its announcement that it maintains a “high bar” for both customer privacy and data security.
“That’s the hope,” Mr. Lindsay said when asked for comment on the view that the bubble of wokeism is a fleeting excess of modern culture and is already popping.
“It’s only a hope.”
Asked how big the risk is of an Orwellian system of “digital enslavement” that treats people like “digital cattle” being implemented in the United States, Mr. Lindsay offered hope—but warned of risk.
The risk “is real,” he said.
“But I am also optimistic that they’ve lost the ability to truly implement it if we keep exposing and speaking up about it,” Mr. Lindsay said.
“If we do nothing, it is certain, however.”
Michael Rectenwald, a former professor at New York University and a distinguished fellow at Hillsdale College, told The Epoch Times that the promise of convenience—the key benefit articulated by Amazon when introducing its new app—is a lure that draws people into arrangements that may not serve their more fundamental interests.
“Amazon’s palm scanning app is a step in the direction of digital identity,” he said, adding that the Bank of International Settlements (BIS), the Swiss-based financial institution colloquially referred to as the “bank for central banks,” has stated that a “digital identity scheme” is a prerequisite for effective CBDCs.
“The BIS has also admitted that CBDCs allow complete transaction transparency.
“Hinging access to money on a digital identity inclusive of a complete (political) profile—one can easily imagine the Orwellian possibilities that this would entail.