“I will deploy the U.S. Navy to impose a full fentanyl blockade on the waters of our region,” President Trump said, noting that many of the precursor chemicals for fentanyl come into Mexico by ship.
China is the main manufacturer of the chemicals that are eventually used by drug cartels to make fentanyl, which then floods into cities across the U.S. after coming across the border.
“Drug cartels are waging war in America and we will wage [war] and destroy … the drug cartels.”
“Nikki Haley is no different from Liz Cheney and Hillary Clinton—women who have never served in the military and feel the need to “prove” how tough they are by always advocating for more war,” she wrote. “To the voters of New Hampshire, please know that a vote for Haley is a vote for endless and bigger wars.”
“If either one of them was good, I wouldn’t be running,” she said. “Yes, they are equally bad, that’s why I’m running… because I don’t think we need to have Biden or Trump.”
Rather than having to choose between “two 80-year-olds,” she said she’s giving people another choice.
“We need to know they’re at the top of their game,” she said. “We need to know that they can take care of our national security and our economy. Right now, I don’t know that people feel like that with either one.”
She also argued that both President Trump and President Biden would make the election about “the past” and legal problems rather than about solving the problems facing Americans today.
Ms. Haley remains the only Republican challenger to President Trump in the final days before the first-in-the-nation primary election in New Hampshire. Mr. DeSantis, upon announcing the suspension of his campaign, also denounced Ms. Haley and endorsed President Trump.
“[President Trump] has my endorsement because we can’t go back to the old Republican guard of yesteryear--a repackaged form of warmed-over corporatism--that Nikki Haley represents,” the Florida governor said. “The days of putting Americans last, of kowtowing to large corporations, of caving to woke ideology, are over.”
President Trump, who has made anti-interventionist and anti-war positions a key part of his political identity, criticized the United States for carrying out missile strikes in Yemen, saying the activity constituted a new “endless war.” Were he in the White House, he said, he could solve the problem with a phone call.
President Trump was referencing a series of joint strikes carried out by the United States, U.K., and other U.S. allies on Houthi rebels in Yemen after the Houthis attacked ships in the Red Sea.
Specifically, while criticizing the Republican establishment, President Trump said they “spend trillions and trillions of dollars on really dumb endless wars.”
“They never end. They go on for … 24 years.”
Now, President Trump said, “we have a new war going on in the Middle East. We’re dropping bombs all over the place again.”
“You can do it with a telephone call and be much tougher if you know what you’re doing,” he added.
Mr. McMaster, who served as a lieutenant governor under Ms. Haley, campaigned with President Trump in New Hampshire on Jan. 20.
“They said, ‘What do you say about the fact that the governor of South Carolina came to New Hampshire to campaign against you?’ And I would say, ‘you mean the guy that I beat when I ran for governor?’” she said.
Ms. Haley defeated Mr. McMaster in the 2010 South Carolina gubernatorial GOP primary that was seen as an upset by Ms. Haley, who defeated bigger-name candidates as a Tea Party candidate.
“And for me, finding the person that we can be proud of not only domestically, but on the national stage in 2024 is probably the most important decision that all of us are going to have to make in our current history,” Judith Sheindlin told the crowd at Exeter High School, which included someone who called on her to throw President Trump, who is facing 91 criminal charges across four cases, behind bars.
“Nikki Haley has to be that candidate.”
Ms. Sheindlin endorsed Ms. Haley earlier this month.
Upon taking the stage, Ms. Haley continued to celebrate Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis dropping out of the race.
“What a crowd! Thank you so much for coming out! Can you hear that sound?” she said.
“That’s the sound of a two-person race.”
Mr. DeSantis announced earlier today that he was dropping his bid for the White House after he failed to achieve an upset in Iowa, where he finished at a distant second.
Mr. DeSantis immediately endorsed President Trump upon leaving the race.
“He ran a really great campaign,” President Trump told his supporters in Rochester, complimenting both Mr. DeSantis and his wife, Casey DeSantis.
“As you know, he left the campaign trail today … And in so doing he was very gracious and endorsed me, so I appreciate that,” President Trump added.
He concluded, “I look forward to working with Ron … to defeat crooked Joe Biden.”
Ms. Lake, who formerly ran for the Arizona governorship, now is campaigning to represent that state in the U.S. Senate.
But many of the former president’s supporters would like to see her as his running mate.
The crowd at the Rochester Opera House chanted, “V.P.!” to indicate that they wanted her to be vice president under President Trump.
In between giving interviews to TV crews, Ms. Lake leaned over a balcony and waved to the supporters below who were waving signs and shouting. She chanted along with them, “Trump! Trump! Trump!”
Lou Gargiulo, co-chair of President Trump’s reelection effort in New Hampshire, told an overflow crowd at the Rochester Opera House: “We are the people who can bring back the American Dream, led by Donald J. Trump.”
He asked the crowd of about 760 people: “What are you going to do to make Trump our next president?”
He reminded the audience that the election is less than two days away, and now is not the time to coast to victory.
The Republican frontrunner’s chances of winning the primary improved after an opponent, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, dropped out of the race, Mr. Gargiulo said, leaving only Nikki Haley, former U.N. ambassador and South Carolina governor.
But he said each person who backs the former president needs to take action.
“We need people at all of the polls holding signs; People need to see the support the president has,” Mr. Gargiulo said.
“The people in this room, the patriots, are very engaged,” he said, but not everyone is.
He urged rallygoers to call their friends and neighbors, remind them to vote, and offer to drive people to the polls.
“Get anybody and everybody who can vote and get them to the polls...that’s what the Democrats do,” Mr.Gargiulo said. “We have to do the same.”
He implored the audience to “please understand how important this is,” because the future of the nation is at stake.
The Biden campaign is ramping up efforts to promote abortion access in the 2024 presidential race. On Tuesday, the president and Vice President Kamala Harris are scheduled to hold a campaign rally in Northern Virginia, where they plan to highlight what they describe as threats to reproductive freedom and condemn former President Donald Trump for his role in the overturning of Roe v. Wade.
As part of the effort, the Biden campaign released an ad on Jan. 21 featuring Dr. Austin Dennard, a Texas woman who had to travel out of state for an abortion because her fetus had a fatal development condition, highlighting the challenges faced by some women seeking abortions.
“In Texas, you are forced to carry that pregnancy, and that is because of Donald Trump overturning Roe v. Wade,” she says in the emotional ad.
President Trump is due to speak at 7 p.m. ET.
Earlier, DeSantis dropped out of the race, saying he had no path to victory after failing to achieve an upset in Iowa. He immediately endorsed President Trump.
President Trump’s campaign responded to the departure graciously, thanking the Florida governor for his endorsement and calling on the Republican Party to come together behind the clear frontrunner.
Later, during a campaign stop in New Hampshire, President Trump announced he would go a step further in a show of forgiveness for his erstwhile adversary.
Asked whether he would continue using his nickname for Mr. DeSantis, President Trump announced, “That nickname is officially retired.”
The announcement was met with a chorus of cheers from those in attendance, and marks a potential first step in a rapprochement between the two one-time allies.
Rep. Bob Good (R-Va.) did so shortly after Mr. DeSantis suspended his campaign and offered his own endorsement to President Trump..
Mr. Good also thanked Mr. DeSantis for running an “outstanding campaign” and being “a tremendous conservative leader.”
He said he hopes the governor runs again in 2028 “to build on the great work of President Trump and bring the Florida model to Washington.”
Mr. Good had originally given Mr. DeSantis his endorsement, saying on May 9, 2023, “That strength in the face of adversity is needed more today than ever before, and it is why I am unequivocally endorsing and encouraging Governor DeSantis to run for president.”
The poll also shows that 63 percent of Mr. DeSantis’s primary supporters said they would be enthusiastic or satisfied if President Trump got the Republican nomination, while only 40 percent said they would feel the same if the nomination were given to Ms. Haley.
With 2,348 participants, the poll was taken between Jan. 16 and Jan. 19, and has a margin of error of +/- 2 percent.
“I signed a pledge to support the Republican nominee and I will honor that pledge,” Mr. DeSantis said in his speech. “He [President Trump] has my endorsement because we can’t go back to the old Republican guard of yesteryear--a repackaged form of warmed-over corporatism--that Nikki Haley represents.”
Mr. DeSantis, after failing to achieve the upset he hoped for in Iowa, on Jan. 21 announced in a post on X that he was leaving the race and endorsing President Trump for the White House over former U.N. ambassador Nikki Haley, who remains in the race.
“With only a few days left until President Donald J. Trump’s victory in New Hampshire, we are honored by the endorsement from Governor Ron DeSantis and so many other former presidential candidates,” the statement read.
The campaign repeated calls from President Trump and others for the GOP to come together behind President Trump and focus their attention on defeating President Joe Biden.
“It is now time for all Republicans to rally behind President Trump to defeat Crooked Joe Biden and end his disastrous presidency.”
The campaign also continued President Trump’s posturing against Ms. Haley, the only notable challenger for the nomination still in the race.
The statement dismissed Ms. Haley as “the candidate of the globalists and Democrats who will do everything to stop the America First movement,” adding that “she represents the views of Democrats more than the views of Republicans.
“It’s time to choose wisely.”
Those Floridians include members of Mr. DeSantis’s administration, including Florida’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Other members of Florida’s State Legislature also joined in endorsing President Trump.
“I am proud to endorse Donald J. Trump to be the next President of the United States,” said State Rep. Daniel Perez on X. Floridians have delivered for President Trump twice before, and we will work nonstop to do so again this November.”
Having Mr. DeSantis and President Trump running against each other had left the Sunshine State divided, but now, more Floridians follow Mr. DeSantis’s lead, remembering in his endorsement of President Trump, the promise he made to support the party nominee.
“Ron DeSantis pinned his entire campaign’s hopes on the same extreme MAGA agenda that both Donald Trump and Nikki Haley are still running on, and now he is the latest member of the GOP to fall in line behind the original MAGA brand,” DNC press secretary Sarafina Chitika said in the statement.
“Just like Trump, DeSantis ran a campaign pledging to ban abortion nationwide, rip away access to health care, and gut Social Security and Medicare, while embracing election deniers and whitewashing January 6. Whichever candidate wins the race for the MAGA base will be left running on the same dangerous and unpopular anti-freedom agenda that voters will reject in November.”
President Joe Biden’s name will not appear on the ballot in New Hampshire’s primary on Jan. 23. His campaign said he will hold a rally in Northern Virginia instead to highlight threats to reproductive freedom, “including the threat of a MAGA Republican-led national abortion ban.”
“Welcome back!” he said.
“I guess we figured out we wanted Trump instead of Diet Trump,” he said, drawing laughter from an enthusiastic crowd..
He also questioned why former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley was still in the race.
Reaction from campaign staffers and other Republicans poured in on X as news of the governor’s announcement and endorsement of former President Donald Trump spread.
“[Ron DeSantis] is the real deal. As someone who loves executing good policy to help people, supporting this guy has been fulfilling. We fought the good fight, and we aren’t done.”
Mr. DeSantis’s Rapid Response Director Christina Pushaw and Press Secretary Bryan Griffin likewise expressed in separate posts that they were “honored” to have stood alongside the candidate in his bid for the White House.
Meanwhile, Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.), an ardent supporter of President Trump, was ready and waiting to welcome Mr. DeSantis back into the “MAGA” fold.
Mr. DeSantis’s exit paves the way for former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to become the primary Republican alternative to President Trump in the race.
“We just heard that Ron DeSantis has dropped out of the race. He ran a great race, he’s been a good governor, and we wish him well. Having said that, it’s now one fella and one lady left.”
Mr. DeSantis made the announcement in a video posted on X, the platform he used to launch his campaign in May last year.
The Florida governor made his exit official two days prior to the New Hampshire primary election, in which he polled in the single digits, well behind former UN Ambassador Nikki Haley and President Donald Trump.
“Following our second-place finish in Iowa, we’ve prayed and deliberated on the way forward. If there was anything I could do to produce a favorable outcome—more campaign stops, more interviews — I would do it. But I can’t ask our supporters to volunteer their time and donate their resources if we don’t have a clear path to victory,” Mr. DeSantis said in his video message. “Accordingly, I am now, today suspending my campaign.”
In the same announcement, Mr. DeSantis endorsed former President Donald Trump.
“He has my endorsement because we cannot go back to the old Republican guard of yesteryear,” Mr. DeSantis said. “A repackaged form of warmed-over corporatism that Nikki Haley represents.”
With Mr. DeSantis’ withdrawal, only former U.S. Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley stands in the way of President Trump reclaiming the GOP nomination. That would set up a rematch of the 2020 presidential election.
“It’s now one fella and one lady,” Haley said at a seafood restaurant in Seabrook, N.H., in reaction to news of DeSantis dropping out.
“Talk to the people in Nevada, they will tell you the caucuses have been sealed up, bought and paid for for a long time. And so that’s why we got into the primary,” she said in response to a question from The Epoch Times.
“But we know the caucus is what it is,” she said. “And these are people who are involved in it that tried to stop it. But that’s the Trump train rolling through that, but we’re gonna focus on the states that are fair.”
Former President Donald Trump is expected to win the Nevada Caucus, by which the state GOP will allocate delegates, as opposed to the primary that was mandated under state law—until a judge allowed Nevada GOP to have its caucus.
On a Jan. 21 appearance on NBC’s “Meet The Press,” Mr. Sununu, a Republican, said the former U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. has knocked out all the other candidates and can score a surprise victory on Jan. 23.
NBC’s Kristen Welker played a clip of Mr. Sununu’s earlier statements to the press predicting a “no doubt” win in a “landslide.”
“I think she can still win. There’s no doubt about it,” Mr. Sununu said.
Mr. Sununu went on to call the race for the Republican Party’s 2024 presidential nomination, a contest between Ms. Haley and former President Donald Trump.
“I’ve always said you want a one-on-one race going into Super Tuesday,” Mr. Sununu said. “I think Super Tuesday is probably where you actually have to start winning states.”
Pressed on his previous predictions, Mr. Sununu said Ms. Haley doesn’t necessarily need to win. He pointed to the fact she polled in the single digits in December and is now running much closer to President Trump.
He said Ms. Haley, whom he’s endorsed and is campaigning with in New Hampshire, is going to run a strong race through Super Tuesday and beyond.
“People don’t realize that South Carolina isn’t next week. It’s like three or four weeks away,” Mr. Sununu said. “Nikki is going to have a lot of time to build on the momentum she’s already created.”
Emulating Ms. Haley’s comments elsewhere on Sunday morning, Mr. Sununu went after a recent gaffe made by President Trump on the campaign trail.
A misidentification of Ms. Haley, when he likely meant to say Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), shows Donald Trump is not as mentally sharp as he was eight years ago, he said.
“This is not Donald Trump, the disrupter of 2016. This guy has lost his fastball.”
Mr. Sununu made similar remarks about President Joe Biden. He said he would not support him even if his preferred candidate does not get the nod at the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee this July.
“This is how bad [President] Biden has been. This is how incompetent he’s been. The guy can barely get off the stage,” Mr. Sununu said. “Nobody wants what has gone on, and everyone is scared of a President Kamala Harris.”
Mr. Marchand told WMUR-TV that he attended the former President’s rally in Manchester on Jan. 20 to see what it was like. He began his comments with: “Wow.”
“These people are ready to rock-and-roll,” Mr. Marchand said about President Trump’s supporters. “The energy level, the devotion, I better understand after being there.”
He also can see now how difficult it will be for other candidates to make headway against the former president, the clear frontrunner for the Republican presidential nomination.
“They’re trying to climb a mountain,” Mr. Marchand said of the former president’s political rivals, “and I’m not sure it’s climbable.”
In an appearance on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Jan. 21, the senator explained why he chose to support President Trump over the former South Carolina governor who appointed him to the Senate. Scott also spoke about his relationship with Ms. Haley and sounded off on speculation about being President Trump’s running mate.
When CNN’s Dana Bash asked Mr. Scott why he chose President Trump, he replied it came down to “what does America need for the next president.”
“We had a stronger economy, a healthy military, and a safer world. Like compare and contrast,” Mr. Scott said. “The only conclusion is Donald Trump.”
Mr. Scott was also asked whether or not he informed Ms. Haley of his decision to endorse President Trump. He said he “texted her the day before I made my announcement.”
“I think President Donald Trump is a strong president will be a strong president again, and will have the kind of accomplishments that will unite this nation around economic opportunity,” Scott said.
When asked about whether he “would like to be Donald Trump’s running mate,” Mr. Scott gave a noncommittal answer.
“I want the kids to look to their future and believe that America is their oyster, they can have whatever they want. That’s what I really want,” Mr. Scott said. “And if I can help achieve that, through my endorsement by being on the campaign trail in my home state of South Carolina for the next four or five weeks, and then beyond, that’s the goal.
“If you don’t think about yourself, but think about the country first. We'll be in good shape.”
U.S. Rep. Dean Phillips (D-Minn.) said President Trump appears poised to become the Republican nominee for president. But if the two men compete against each other in a rematch of the 2020 election this year, President Biden is “the only Democrat who can and will lose to that man.”
Mr. Phillips, who announced his candidacy in October, made his remarks to Manchester-based WMUR-TV, Channel 9, on Jan. 21.
President Biden has not been campaigning in the Granite State. His name will not appear on the ballot for New Hampshire voters.
The committee also discouraged the party’s presidential candidates from participating in this “nonbinding presidential preference event.”
Mr. Phillips also raised concerns that neither President Biden nor President Trump would make a good leader for the nation, partly because they’re “two old men.” President Biden is 81 and President Trump is 77. He said neither of them is “ready for artificial intelligence” and other advanced technologies and challenges in the modern world.
On an appearance on CBS' “Face The Nation” on Jan. 21, Ms. Haley, the former U.S. Ambassador to the UN, said most Americans do not want to see a rematch of the 2020 general election.
“Our kids are never going to forgive us for it. It’s more of the same,” Ms. Haley told CBS’s Margaret Brennan. “We’re going to have two presidential candidates in their eighties. That’s not what our kids want. That’s not what we should want.”
Ms. Brennan pointed out that President Trump repeatedly confused Ms. Haley for Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) when speaking about the events of Jan. 6, 2021, at a recent rally.
In response, Ms. Haley pointed out that President Trump said President Joe Biden was going to lead the U.S. into World War II when he likely meant to say “world war three,” and that he ran against former President Barack Obama along with his remarks that were likely meant to be about Ms. Pelosi.
“If you have someone that’s 80 in an office, their mental stability is going to continue to decline,” Ms. Haley said. “That’s just human nature.”
Ms. Haley went on to say she didn’t know if President Trump was confused but the slip-ups should be a “warning sign.”
“Are we really going to go into a situation where we have wars around the world, and we’re trying to prevent war, and we’re going to have someone who we can’t be sure that they’re going to get confused? It’s a real issue,” Ms. Haley said. “That’s not being disrespectful. It’s just a fact.”
Ms. Brennan asked Ms. Haley if she observed any similar behavior from President Trump when she was part of his administration from 2017 to 2018. She said she would “call him out if he was doing something wrong” but “this is different.”
“We’re seeing he’s just not at the same level he was in 2016,” Ms. Haley said. “I think we’re seeing some of that decline.”
Ms. Haley started the day at May Anne’s Diner in Derry–where she also made an appearance on Jan. 19. Other scheduled events include a rally at a middle school, followed by a handful of retail stops including an appearance at the University of New Hampshire’s hockey game against the University of Connecticut.
The rally with Ms. Sheindlin, in Exeter, will wrap up her public schedule for the day.
“I’m proud to endorse Nikki Haley because she is whip smart, has executive credentials and was a superb governor,” said Ms. Sheindlin in a statement released by the Haley campaign on Jan. 9.
“She has international gravitas as Ambassador to the United Nations. She is principled, measured and has that elusive quality of real common sense. I truly think she can restore America and believe she is the future of this great nation.”
Ms. Sheindlin endorsed former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, a Democrat, in the 2020 presidential election.
“Judge Judy is a no-nonsense lady who has earned the respect of millions of Americans from her courtroom by being thoughtful, fair, and honest. I’m honored to have her support,” said Ms. Haley in her campaign statement.
Ms. Haley has seized upon the GOP front-runner’s apparent gaffe at a Jan. 19 campaign rally confusing her with Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) as ammunition heading into the New Hampshire primary, where she is hoping to pull off an upset victory.
But her attacks, Mr. Sabato said, are unlikely to produce the desired result.
“It is definitely too little too late,” he told CNN on Jan. 20, noting that former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie was the only candidate to target President Trump from the outset. And Mr. Christie is now out of the race—an indicator of how difficult it is to land punches on the man commonly referred to as “Teflon Don.”
“This is the MAGA party—this is the Donald Trump party,” Mr. Sabato said. “And so, to get the nomination against Donald Trump, you have to somehow convince people that Trump is no longer up to the job or can’t win in November, but not offend them so much that they won’t vote for you. And it’s a near impossibility.”
While he conceded that Ms. Haley may have a better chance of swaying New Hampshire voters to her side, he stressed that such support was unlikely to continue in states like South Carolina, where evangelical voters—a strong subset of President Trump’s base—are a dominant voting bloc.
“I just don’t think this attack, like most of the others, will make all that much of a difference.”
The former Arkansas governor gave Ms. Haley the nod in a social media post on Jan. 20, three days ahead of the New Hampshire primary election.
“Anyone who believes Donald Trump will unite this country has been asleep over the last 8 years,” Mr. Hutchinson wrote on X. “Trump intentionally tries to divide America and will continue to do so.”
Mr. Hutchinson signed off with, “Go @NikkiHaley in New Hampshire” and the hashtag FITN, a reference to the Granite State’s primary election being the “first in the nation.”
The endorsement comes at a key moment for Ms. Haley, as she battles former President Donald Trump in a state where she is polling well.
Ms. Haley began to rise in New Hampshire polls in late December. A Jan. 15 poll by American Research Group, Inc., showed President Trump and Ms. Haley tied at 40 percent each.
Another poll, conducted by CNN and the University of New Hampshire, showed Mr. Trump leading Ms. Haley by a margin of 11 percent.
President Trump has collected a bevy of endorsements and has trickled them out over the last two weeks.
North Dakota Gov. Doug Burgum, a former candidate in this race, endorsed the former president on Jan. 14, the day before the Iowa caucuses. Former presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy endorsed President Trump on Jan. 16, immediately after dropping from the race.
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) endorsed President Trump on Jan. 17, and Sen. Tim Scott (R-S.C.), another former candidate in this cycle, did so on Jan. 19.
On Jan. 21, two days ahead of the primary, both the University of New Hampshire (UNH) and Suffolk University polls said President Trump maintains a solid lead in the state. However, it is not as large as the lead he held in the polls conducted ahead of the Jan. 15 Iowa Caucus.
Two polls were released on Sunday. Both said President Trump maintains a more than 11 percent advantage heading into the country’s first presidential primary election.
The UNH poll indicated President Trump has 50 percent of likely Republican primary voters’ support. Former U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley has 39 percent. In third place, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has 6 percent.
The poll, which surveyed 2,348 Granite Staters between Jan. 16 and Jan. 19, reports a 2.8 percent margin of error.
Sunday’s results, according to UNH, show that Ms. Haley has been able to grow her commitments to 39 percent from 32 percent since early January. However, President Trump saw his own rise to 50 percent from 39 percent.
The early January survey included candidates who have since dropped out of the race: Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, a harsh critic of President Trump, and businessman Vivek Ramaswamy, who has gone on to endorse and campaign with President Trump.
The other Jan. 21 poll, the fifth daily poll conducted by Suffolk University and published by the Boston Globe, showed the pledges to vote for both President Trump and Ms. Haley are firming up.
The Sunday poll from Suffolk showed President Trump leading Ms. Haley with 55 percent of the vote over her 39 percent. Mr. DeSantis has 6 percent of the likely vote. The Wednesday, Jan. 17, edition of the poll showed President Trump had 50 percent and Ms. Haley had 34 percent.
The latest Suffolk poll surveyed 500 New Hampshire residents who will likely take part in its Republican primary between Jan. 19 and Jan. 20. It reported a margin of error of 4.4 percent.
Mr. DeSantis was scheduled to appear on NBC’s “Meet the Press” and CNN’s “State of the Union.”
“The media hits were canceled due to a scheduling issue and will be rescheduled,” Bryan Griffin of the DeSantis campaign wrote on X, formerly Twitter, Saturday evening.
“The governor will be traveling Sunday morning with the campaign and has public events scheduled Sunday evening through Tuesday in NH.”
Mr. DeSantis finished second in the Iowa primary but had largely withdrawn from campaigning in New Hampshire to campaign in South Carolina, the next to vote. He trails both President Trump and former U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley by a wide margin in both states.
The candidate is expected to appear at an event in Manchester at 5 p.m. today.
The daily newspaper endorsed Ms. Haley in a Jan. 20 editorial, touting her background as a diplomat, governor, accountant, military spouse, and mother who also happens to be a child of immigrants.
While the outlet acknowledged that its chosen candidate has stumbled in recent weeks over “some unfriendly soundbites”—including neglecting to list slavery as the primary cause of the Civil War—it contended that Ms. Haley was still the most qualified candidate for the job and a better choice than “putting another octogenarian in the White House.”