Psychologist and author Jordan Peterson has warned members of the U.S. Congress that the collusion of governments with banks, along with emerging technologies like digital identity systems and central bank digital currencies, could turn countries into totalitarian surveillance states.
And that increased surveillance could in turn enable police to become more secretive and furtive in their operations, he said.
Mr. Peterson said around the world there appears to be a collusion between “gigantic, self-interested corporations and paranoid security-obsessed anti-human governments.” He said these two entities are using online data and sophisticated algorithms to develop images, “not only of our actions, but of our thoughts and words, so that deviation from the desired end can be mapped, rewarded, and punished.”
The Canadian psychologist warned that with corporations increasingly able to track the purchasing decisions and online patterns of users, as well as develop algorithms to predict future actions, the information could be used to “track, monitor, and punish everything we do and say.”
“This allows you purposefully to be shut out of all activities that can be virtualized, and in a rapidly virtualizing world, this increasingly means all activities: driving, shopping, working, eating, finding shelter, even fraternizing with friends and family,” Mr. Peterson said.
He warned that since many countries in the West had copied China’s strategy of implementing lockdowns in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, they could also be “walking step by step in the same direction” as that country’s social credit system.
“With the increasing ability to monitor not only the actual attention patterns and behaviours of citizens, but to predict those that are most likely, the persecution of even potential crime becomes ever more likely,” he said.
“‘If you have nothing to hide, you will have nothing to fear’ will be the slogan commandeered by those most likely to turn to surveillance to protect their control.”
He noted the well-known quote attributed to Lavrenty Beria, chief of the Soviet security and secret police apparatus under Joseph Stalin: “Show me the man and I'll show you the crime.”