The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has authorized the first-of-its-kind non-invasive artificial intelligence-powered medical device to detect three of the most common skin cancers in real time.
The FDA said on Jan. 16 that it had cleared the DermaSensor Inc. device, made by the Miami-based company of the same name, to be used by physicians on patients aged 40 and over.
According to DermaSensor Inc., the wireless, handheld device uses spectroscopy (the absorption and emission of light and other radiation by matter) and FDA-cleared algorithms to evaluate cellular and subcellular characteristics of a skin lesion to identify potential cancer cells in seconds.
Typically, skin cancer is identified through a procedure known as dermatoscopy, in which a medical professional examines the skin for signs of cancer using a specialized magnifying glass or through a visual examination.
The DermaSensor Inc. device can detect all three of the most common types of skin cancer—basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and melanoma, which is the most deadly form of skin cancer—allowing health care providers to determine whether or not to refer a patient to a dermatologist, according to the company.
Equipping primary care physicians to better evaluate the most common cancer in the country has been a “major, long-standing unmet need in medicine,” he said.
“While dozens of companies have attempted to address this problem in recent decades, we are honored to be the first device cleared by the FDA that provides PCPs with an automated tool for evaluation of suspicious lesions,” Mr. Simmons added.
According to the FDA, the DermaSensor Inc. device should be used “in conjunction with the totality of clinically relevant information from the clinical assessment, including visual analysis of the lesion, by physicians who are not dermatologists.”
It should also be used on lesions “already assessed as suspicious for skin cancer and not as a screening tool.”
“The device should not be used as the sole diagnostic criterion nor to confirm a diagnosis of skin cancer,” the FDA said.
The agency is also requiring that DermaSensor Inc. conduct additional post-market clinical validation performance testing of the device in patients from demographic groups representative of the U.S. population, including populations who are at lower risk of skin cancer.
A negative result recorded on the device has a 97 percent chance of being benign for all skin cancers, the agency said.
In a companion clinical utility study among 108 physicians, the DermaSensor device was found to decrease the number of missed skin cancers by half (from 18 percent to 9 percent), increasing the physicians’ accuracy and confidence in assessing cancerous lesions, according to DermaSensor Inc.
However, some experts have warned that some AI medical devices and systems being developed to diagnose skin cancer could result in less accurate results in some patients, specifically those with darker skin tones, due to a lack of freely available image databases to help train AI systems.
Others have said that AI being used to help detect skin cancer in patients runs the risk of overdiagnosing, noting that not all tumors become life-threatening, and cautioned overuse and sensible deployment of such technology.