Germany will register only marginal growth in 2024, an industry group predicted as the country’s annual gross domestic product (GDP) declined last year for the first time since 2020.
Mr. Russwurm’s comments come as Destatis, Germany’s federal statistics office, revealed on Jan. 15 that the country’s GDP shrank by 0.3 percent in 2023.
“Despite recent price declines, prices remained high at all stages in the economic process and put a damper on economic growth. Unfavorable financing conditions due to rising interest rates and weaker domestic and foreign demand also took their toll.”
As such, the German economy was unable to continue its recovery from the “sharp economic slump” it saw during the pandemic year of 2020.
The 0.3 percent GDP dip was the first decline since 2020 and is only the second annual decrease in growth rate between 2012 and 2023.
Carsten Brzeski, global head of macro research at the Dutch bank ING, told The Guardian that there’s “no imminent rebound in sight” for the German economy. The country “looks set to go through the first two-year recession since the early 2000s.”
“We expect the current state of stagnation and shallow recession to continue. In fact, the risk that 2024 will be another year of recession is high,” he said.
Germany has been rocked by strikes from train drivers and farmers in recent weeks.
While demands over pay and working hours triggered the train employees, farmers are striking because of government policies that negatively affect them, including scaling down agricultural subsidies and ending green tax exemptions for farming vehicles. The country’s farming community insists that such measures threaten their survival.
The BDI president cited the building of hydrogen backup power plants for energy transition as a key issue requiring urgent action. As long as their construction remains in limbo because of issues with business models and financing, Germany will remain dependent on coal-power plants, Mr. Russwurm stated.
“This exact scenario is getting closer every day.” Such a situation would be embarrassing for Germany, which has an ambitious decarbonization plan, he said.
Last month, Berlin decided it would cut down funding aimed at the green transformation of Germany and slash subsidies for solar power projects and traditional energy in a bid to solve a 17 billion euro (about $18.3 billion) hole in the country’s budget.
Mr. Russwurm also criticized the European Supply Chain Due Diligence Act and the AI Act. The EU Due Diligence Act seeks to hold corporations accountable for their environmental and social effects. The AI Act lays down regulations for artificial intelligence systems in the European Union.
“We need an internal market that, because of its economies of scale, also allows future-oriented industrial value creation to be scaled up, not just in digitalization, but in general,” he said.
Mr. Russwurm said the various elections in Europe—such as state elections in Brandenburg, Saxony, and Thuringia—and the U.S. presidential election this year are “extremely important” to the country.