A suburban Chicago man believed to be shown on newly surfaced video firing a handgun into the air near the U.S. Capitol has been charged by federal prosecutors with five Jan. 6 crimes.
John Emanuel Banuelos, 39, of Summit, Illinois, is named in a criminal complaint unsealed on March 11 with carrying and discharging a firearm on Capitol property on Jan. 6, 2021.
It is the only known case of a rioter firing a weapon near the Capitol or other Washington protest sites on Jan. 6.
Mr. Banuelos was arrested by the FBI at his sister’s home in the southwestern Chicago suburb of Summit on March 8.
He is charged with obstruction of law enforcement during civil disorder, entering and remaining in a restricted building or grounds with a deadly or dangerous weapon, discharging a firearm on Capitol grounds, carrying a firearm on Capitol grounds, and disorderly conduct in a Capitol building.
Mr. Banuelos made an initial appearance in U.S. District Court in Chicago on March 8. He remains in custody pending a detention hearing on March 13.
At just before 1:30 p.m. on Jan. 6, U.S. Capitol Police security video appears to show Mr. Banuelos “holding up his gloved hand to form the shape of a ‘finger gun’” and simulating “firing multiple times in the direction of officers,” the FBI said in charging documents.
When Utah police questioned Mr. Banuelos in a fatal stabbing case in the summer of 2021, he told them he was pictured in a Vice News video from the Capitol on Jan. 6.
In that video, a man matching Mr. Banuelos’s description flashes a gun tucked into his belt while pushing backward against the police line on the west plaza just before 2 p.m.
That video raised questions about why someone known to the FBI for more than three years who publicly flashed a firearm had not been arrested.
An FBI special agent interviewed Mr. Banuelos on Jan. 19, 2024.
According to the charging documents, a social media account under Mr. Banuelos’s name “appears to show Banuelos racking the slide of a semi-automatic weapon” on a video posted in October 2023.
Mr. Banuelos “denied intending to threaten anyone and claimed many of his posts were done by artificial intelligence,” the FBI wrote.