Brian Murphy, a former FBI agent who once led the intelligence wing of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), reflected last summer on the failures of the Disinformation Governance Board—the panel formed to actively police misinformation. The board, which was proposed in April 2022 after he left DHS, was quickly shelved by the Biden administration in a few short months in the face of criticism that it would be an Orwellian state-sponsored “Ministry of Truth.”
The legal problems and public backlash to the Disinformation Governance Board also demonstrated to him that “the government has a major role to play, but they cannot be out in front.”
More recently, Mr. Murphy has worked to make his vision of countering misinformation a reality by joining a United Kingdom-based tech firm, Logically.AI, whose eponymous product identifies and removes content from social media. Since joining the firm, Mr. Murphy has met with military and other government officials in the United States, many of whom have gone on to contract or pilot Logically’s platform.
Logically says it uses artificial intelligence to keep tabs on more than 1 million conversations. It also maintains a public-facing editorial team that produces viral content and liaisons with the traditional news media. It differs from other players in this industry by actively deploying what they call “countermeasures” to dispute or remove problematic content from social media platforms.
Logically was founded in 2017 by a then-22-year-old British entrepreneur named Lyric Jain, who was inspired to form the company to combat what he believed were the lies that pushed the UK into voting in favor of Brexit, or leaving the European Union. The once-minor startup now has broad contracts across Europe and India and has worked closely with Microsoft, Google, PwC, TikTok, and other major firms. Meta contracts with Logically to help the company fact-check content on all of its platforms: WhatsApp, Instagram, and Facebook.
The close ties to Silicon Valley provide unusual reach.
Meta and Logically did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
During the 2021 local elections in the UK, Logically monitored up to “one million pieces of harmful content,” some of which they relayed to government officials, according to a document reviewed by RealClearInvestigations (RCI). The firm claimed to spot coordinated activity to manipulate narratives around the election, information they reported to tech giants for takedowns.
Oregon state Rep. Ed Diehl has led a push against the state’s renewing its work with Logically for the election this year. The company, he said in an interview, violates “our constitutional rights to free speech and privacy” by “flagging true information as false, claiming legitimate dissent is a threat, and then promoting ‘counter-narratives’ against valid forms of public debate.”
In response, the Oregon Secretary of State’s office, which initiated the contract with Logically, claimed “no authority, ability, or desire to censor speech.” Mr. Diehl disputes this. He pointed out that the original proposal with Logically clearly states that its service “enables the opportunity for unlimited takedown attempts” of alleged misinformation content and the ability for the Oregon Secretary of State’s office to “flag for removal” any “problematic narratives and content.” The contract document touts Logically as a “trusted entity within the social media community” that gives it “preferred status“ that enables it to support its ”client’s needs at a moment’s notice.”
Mr. Diehl, who shared a copy of the Logically contract with RCI, called the issue a vital “civil rights” fight and noted that in an ironic twist, the state’s anti-misinformation speech suppression work further inflames distrust in “election systems and government institutions in general.”
Logically’s reports similarly collected information on Alexandre de Figueiredo, a research fellow at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Mr. Figueiredo had published reports on the negative ways in which vaccine passports could undermine vaccine confidence and had publicly criticized policies aimed at the mass vaccination of children. Despite his expertise, Logically filed his tweet in a disinformation report to the government. While some of the reports were categorized as evidence of terms of service violations, many were, in fact, routine forms of dissent aired by prominent voices in the UK on policies hotly contested by expert opinion.
Ms. Carlo was surprised to even find her name on posts closely monitored and flagged by Logically. “We found that the company exploits millions of online posts to monitor, record and flag online political dissent to the central government under the banner of countering ‘disinformation,’” she said in a statement to RCI.
Other targets of Logically are quick to point out that the firm has taken liberties with what it classifies as misinformation.
Will Jones, the editor of the Daily Sceptic, a British news outlet with a libertarian bent, has detailed an unusual fact-check from Logically Facts, the company’s editorial site. Mr. Jones said the site targeted him for pointing out that data in 2022 showed that 71 percent of patients hospitalized for COVID-19 were vaccinated. Logically’s fact-check acknowledged that Mr. Jones had accurately used statistics from the UK Health Security Agency, but it tried to undermine him by asserting that he was still misleading by suggesting that “vaccines are ineffective.”
But Mr. Jones, in a reply, noted that he never made that argument and that Logically was batting away at a straw man. In fact, his original piece plainly took issue with a Guardian article that incorrectly claimed that “COVID-19 has largely become a disease of the unvaccinated.”
“As far as I can work out, it’s a grift,” Daily Sceptic founder Toby Young said of Logically. “A group of shysters offer to help the government censor any criticism of its policies under the pretense that they’re not silencing dissent—God forbid!—but merely ‘cleansing’ social media of misinformation, disinformation, and hate speech.”
Mr. Jones was similarly dismissive of the company, which he said disputes anything that runs contrary to popular consensus. “The consensus of course is that set by the people who pay Logically for their services,” Mr. Jones said. “The company claims to protect democratic debate by providing access to ‘reliable information, but in reality, it is paid to bark and savage on command whenever genuine free speech makes an inconvenient appearance.”
In some cases, Logically has piled on to news stories to help discredit voices of dissent. Last September, the anti-misinformation site leaped into action after British news outlets published reports about sexual misconduct allegations surrounding comedian and online broadcaster Russell Brand—one of the outspoken critics of government policy in Britain, who has been compared to Joe Rogan for his heterodox views and large audience.
But the site took dramatic action when the sexual allegations, none of which have been proved in court, were published in the media. Mr. Ondrak, Logically’s investigations head, provided different quotes to nearly half a dozen news outlets—including Vice, Wired, the BBC, and two separate articles in The Times of London—that depicted Mr. Brand as a dangerous purveyor of misinformation who had finally been held to account.
The unusual advocacy campaign against Mr. Brand represented a typical approach for a company that has long touted itself as a hammer against spreaders of misinformation. The opportunity to remove Mr. Brand from the media ecosystem meant throwing as much at him as possible, regardless of whether there was any clear misinformation or disinformation angle in the sexual assault allegations. Rather, he was a leading critic of government censorship and pandemic policy, so the scandal represented a weakness to be exploited.
Such heavy-handed tactics may be on the horizon for American voters. The firm is now a member of the U.S. Election Infrastructure Information Sharing & Analysis Center, the group managed by the Center for Internet Security that helps facilitate misinformation reports on behalf of election officials across the country. Logically has been in talks with Oregon and other states, and DHS, to expand its social media surveillance role for the presidential election later this year.
Previous targets of the company, though, are issuing a warning.
“It appears that Logically’s lucrative and frankly sinister business effectively produced multi-million-pound misinformation for the government that may have played a role in the censorship of citizens’ lawful speech,” Ms. Carlo of Big Brother Watch said.