Our picks of the week from around the web, including the tricks of the food trade, how AI could change our world and China’s secretive tech giant.
Why Apple is like a movie studio
 Walter Mossberg | Recode | 22nd April 2014
 Since Steve Jobs died, Apple isn’t making originals any more, it’s making sequels. Sequels aren’t always bad; they can be better than the originals; they can make more money than the originals. But you can only do so many. “After a while audience interest in sequels wanes, and competitors come up with alluring new things. Then you’d better have a whole new franchise, because you can’t live forever on sequels.”
Transcending complacency on superintelligent machines 
 Stephen Hawking et al | Huffington Post | 19th April 2014
 Artificial intelligence is “potentially the best or worst thing ever to happen to humanity”. And yet very little serious scientific research is being devoted to the ways in which it will change our world. It is as though we humans were getting a message from a superior alien civilisation saying, “We’ll arrive in a few decades”, and we were replying, indifferently: “OK, call us when you get here – we’ll leave the lights on.”
Chat wars
 David Auerbach | n+1 | 18th April 2014
 Insider’s tale of how Microsoft tried to get traction for its messaging app, MSN Messenger. MS developers spoofed the protocols used by America Online’s more popular AIM messaging app, so that Microsoft users could ping AOL users. AOL fought back. Everybody lost.
Tricks of the food trade
 David Raubenheimer & Stephen Simpson | Nature | 17th April 2014
 People are getting fatter because they are eating more, rather than because they are exercising less. They are eating more because human bodies require protein for development; cheap, industrialised food contains relatively little protein, but lots of sugars and fats engineered to taste like protein; such food, in effect, tricks the body into consuming more calories in order to maintain a target level of protein,
Tencent – secretive Chinese tech giant
 Dorinda Elliott | Fast Company | 17th April 2014
 Frustratingly sketchy at points, and prone to cliché, but gets across well the main point that here is a company worth knowing better. Tencent is a Shenzhen-based social media giant with the scale of a Facebook or an Amazon; its founder, Pony Ma, is the richest person in China; he’s made a series of brilliant calls on messaging, games and mobile; now he needs a strategy for succeeding in the West.
Time’s arrow traced to quantum source
 Natalie Wolchover | Quanta | 16th April 2014
 Hot things cool, solid things crumble, fragile things break. The universe moves towards equilibrium only. But why? Quantum mechanics may have an answer: Entanglement. “Particles gradually lose their individual autonomy and became pawns of the collective state … What’s really going on is things are becoming more correlated with each other. The arrow of time is an arrow of increasing correlations.”