The best of this week’s science and technology long reads, including the ultimate guide to Virgin Galactic, medicine’s flaws, and the ‘FedEx problem’.
Medicine | Faith, hope and chemistry
Medicine is full of mystery, because the human body is full of mystery – the mystery of life. A doctor can never be quite sure whether a procedure will work or not; which would be an odd state of affairs in most other professions. “Imagine a civil engineer saying that about 20% of the bridges he constructs are useless, meaning that not even a small dog could get safely across them. What is going on here?” (Bert Keizer, Threepenny Review, 2,430 words)
Technology | Raw thoughts on Amazon Dash
First take on Amazon’s product-order buttons for the home. They’re genius. They lower friction and lock you in to Amazon. They probably cost next to nothing to make. But the forward-looking bit is something that Amazon doesn’t even mention: They are advertisements for the product, right there in your home, put there by you. The product is the channel. “In the future every product will carry a buy button.” (Matt Webb, Interconnected, 2,120 words)
Space | Everything you need to know about flying Virgin Galactic
A 90-minute flight will carry six passengers to a height of 100 kilometres; but not without risk. “After a pilot gives the OK, they can push a button, free themselves from their straps, and go floating around. They can do somersaults in midair, assume yoga positions, think lofty thoughts about life on Earth. We have also entered here into the realm of projectile vomiting. Virgin Galactic insists that this will not be a problem”. (William Langewiesche, Vanity Fair, 7,700 words)
Hospitals | Overdose of technology
The shift to computerised information systems has simplified hospital management and reduced the quantity of errors in health records, but it also creates opportunities for new and more spectacular mistakes. Here is how a child in a San Francisco hospital received 38.5-times the intended dose of a routine antibiotic. “This is a huge dose. Oh my God, did you give this dose?” “Oh my God. I did.” (Bob Wachter, Backchannel, 2,400 words)
Logistics | The FedEx problem
A post to Hacker News argues that FedEx’s Memphis hub is 315 miles from the optimal point for serving all America’s major cities. Whereupon the executive who wrote the scheduling software for the FedEx fleet shows up in the comments and explains what else determined the choice of hub besides geometry; and discusses how FedEx plans delivery routes for planes serving multiple cities, a famously complex maths problem. (graycat et al, Hacker News, 6,100 words)
Alan Turing | Computing machinery and intelligence
Highly readable summary of Alan Turing’s great paper. Every sentence rewards consideration. “It is probably wise to include a random element in a learning machine. The learning process may be regarded as a search for a form of behaviour which will satisfy the teacher (or some other criterion). Since there is probably a very large number of satisfactory solutions the random method seems to be better than the systematic.” (Jack Hoy, 2,350 words)
Computers | Living with a computer
The 1982 iteration of James Fallows explains how to use one of these computer things. “When I sit down to write a letter or start the first draft of an article, I simply type on the keyboard and the words appear on the screen… How I wish my employers would install computers in their headquarters, so I could submit articles over the telephone, one computer to another, instead of fighting the crowds at the Express Mail window.” (James Fallows, The Atlantic, 7,100 words)