"Jobs Terminatored" is the Sun's headline for a story about how the rise of robotics and artificial intelligence will affect British workers.
The paper says the automation revolution will split the country into winners and losers unless the government steps in.
The Guardian reports that the machine economy threatens jobs which bring in about a third of the UK's annual pay.
It says that leading figures, including the Archbishop of Canterbury, want ministers to manage the adoption of automation better and help people share in the benefits of new technology. 
Meanwhile, some of the newspaper headlines may make for uncomfortable reading for chief constables.
The Sun writes up the results of its own investigation, which suggests that officers in England and Wales failed to find a suspect in half of crimes.
The paper has gone though official crime data and finds a wide variation in the number of times someone's brought to book for crimes including burglary, robbery and vehicle taking.
In its editorial, the Sun calls for a Royal Commission "to sort out our police".
The Times also takes aim at the police, after reporting that the Met is failing to deal properly with 90% of child protection cases.
The paper uses its leader column to state that British policing is "in a poor state".
It says the latest revelations come off the back of the recent collapses of rape trials due to problems with disclosing evidence to the defence.
It accuses the police of being unable to learn from their mistakes and calls for "large-scale and radical reform".
The Daily Mail questions whether a government crackdown on hospital parking charges is working.
The paper condemns the fees, which earned the NHS £175m last year, calling them an "iniquitous tax on the sick".
Writing in the Daily Mirror, Conservative MP Robert Halfon says the charges are a "stealth tax on the NHS".
But the Guardian quotes Rachel Power of the Patients' Association as saying that the state of NHS finances means it's sometimes hard to blame hospitals for trying to find money, but this didn't make the situation acceptable.
Prince Harry's guest editorship of this programme is reported widely.
Jan Moir, writing in the Daily Mail, says the prince "sounded earnest and sincere, keen to present himself as an ordinary chap, even though he is anything but".
The Guardian's Graham Ruddick writes that the guest editorship fits with the broader media strategy of the young royals - in that they are willing to open up, but on their terms.
"A prince for Today" is the Daily Telegraph's take, saying radio producers around the country would've been "gnashing their teeth with envy" at the guests he had.
Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning
Scenes of a snowy Britain are sprinkled through the papers, with the Daily Express saying that Britons face "further misery" in the run up to New Year, with gales, torrential downpours and inches of snow forecast.
The Daily Mirror says Wednesday's snow brought "chaos" to the roads, while the Daily Mail adds that it even caused the closure of an ice rink in Gloucester.
The Times says Brexit Secretary David Davis has been sidelined in negotiations with the EU and a senior civil servant is now, in effect, running the talks.
According to the paper, Oliver Robbins, who worked for Mr Davis before being brought to the Cabinet Office, has held face-to-face talks with the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier.
The Times says this is a "breach of protocol".
Any suggestion Mr Davis has been sidelined is denied by the Brexit department, with the paper reporting that he and Mr Barnier speak to each other in "quite a frank manner" and this is seen by London and Brussels as "useful".
Was it Facebook "wot won it"? The Daily Mail reports that the social network is offering direct support to political parties, so they can harness its power to win elections.
The company, which hasn't commented on the Mail's story, is reportedly offering free workshops to help political candidates use it as a campaigning platform.
While the paper adds that no member of Facebook staff has been seconded to a UK party, it is said to be keen to tap into the lucrative political advertising market.
The Daily Telegraph's campaign to bring back the Royal Yacht receives a boost as it reports on an idea being floated among Conservative backbenchers.
It says 50 MPs have suggested a new national lottery could be used to fund the ship - and they're seeking the backing of ministers.
The paper says a new Royal Yacht would help with striking trade deals after Brexit.
According to the MPs' letter, using a lottery to raise the cash would mean British people "would have the pride of having a stake in her".
Camelot, which runs the National Lottery, says new games are a matter for the government.
It seems it's not just auld acquaintances who can be forgot, but the lyrics to Auld Lang Syne themselves. 
According to the Sun, just 3% of us know Robert Burns's words well enough to sing them on New Year's Eve.