In all the papers this morning there's condemnation and revulsion at the behaviour of Bulgarian fans during the England game last night.
"Disgusting" is the headline on the back page of the Daily Telegraph. The Guardian calls the supporters' antics "sickening". 
The Daily Mirror puts the story on its front page - calling what happened "Football's night of shame". The paper praises England players for taking a stand by threatening to walk off the pitch.
The paper's columnist, Darren Lewis, says football has had decades to address the cancer of racism. He thinks countries guilty of racist behaviour should be thrown out of competitions.
The Daily Express says "vile racists" may spout their hatred but England's 6-0 victory shows them they will never win. The Daily Mail's headline is "England - six. Racism - nil."
The Queen is pictured in all her finery on many of the front pages - as the papers report yesterday's Queen's Speech. 
The Daily Express calls the programme of legislation a "bold vision for Britain" and says it's time to start looking at the UK's bright future post-Brexit.
The Sun believes Boris Johnson's message - "Get Brexit done and we can focus on on crime, the NHS and the environment " - will strike a chord with millions of voters.
But the Daily Mirror damns the Speech as "a Conservative Party election broadcast proposing a series of incoherent ideas".
The Financial Times believes the speech's timing was at best eccentric and at worst a ploy to tie up parliamentary time and prevent scrutiny of the government's Brexit strategy. 
The Telegraph maintains that there's "cautious optimism" from the UK and the EU that a Brexit deal appears to be taking shape. But, the paper says, the talks remain "on a knife edge".
According to the Times, "an end is in sight" and the talks are likely to go to the wire.
The Guardian claims "welfare robots" could one day decide benefit claims and drive vulnerable people further into debt. The paper says it's discovered that the Department of Work and Pensions is building a "virtual workforce" to take over some of the jobs of humans using artificial intelligence. 
It quotes claimants as saying that civil servants are already in thrall to computer algorithms and unable to contradict the machine's verdicts. The DWP says automation is speeding up services and giving staff more time to offer support to those who need it.
The National Farmer's Union has accused Tesco of "demonising meat" in an advert for vegan sausages, according to the Times. In the TV advertisement a girl tells her father that she wants to stop eating animals.
He cooks her meat-free Tesco sausages and talks about his love for his daughter. The NFU says the ad could undermine efforts to encourage children to eat a balanced diet and has caused significant distress to British farmers. 
The Mirror, the Times and the Daily Express all tell the story of Margaret Ford who has just published her first novel at the age of 93.
"A Daughter's Choice" is inspired by 633 wartime love letters from her late husband, Jim, and is based on her early life in Lancashire. Mr Ford wrote her three letters a day while serving with the Border Regiment. She has more letters and hopes to write a sequel.
Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning
The Daily Mail puts its campaign to "Save Our Local Post Offices" on its front page. It says it's been inundated with complaints from customers angry about Barclays Bank's decision to stop its account holders withdrawing cash from Post Office branches.
The Times, the Express and the i report research which suggests that people in Britain really were more cheerful in the good old days.
A study tracking the national mood has concluded that happiness peaked in the 1880s, when Queen Victoria celebrated her Golden Jubilee.
The researchers from Warwick and Glasgow universities and the Alan Turing Institute analysed the language used in millions of books and newspaper articles.