Photos of the first day of Donald Trump's state visit are on most of the front pages. 
"When two worlds collide" is how the Independent puts it, showing the president appearing to fist-bump the Queen when they met at Buckingham Palace. 
The Times shows the two of them laughing during the banquet at the palace on Monday night, while they can be seen clinking glasses on the front of the Daily Express.
But much of the focus is on what the Daily Telegraph calls an "extraordinary spat" between Mr Trump and Mayor of London Sadiq Khan, which it says threatened to overshadow the visit. 
As he landed, the president launched what the papers calls a "Twitter tirade" against the mayor, calling him a "stone cold loser". 
The Daily Mail chides both men - "it was petulant and deeply unedifying", it says, and they both "demeaned themselves and their offices". 
A cartoon in the Times shows Mr Trump amid the smoking cannon which had just fired the royal salute: "Have you hit mayor Khan yet?", he bawls at the gunner.
The Los Angeles Times says the president's early tweets "set a cantankerous tone" for his five-day European trip, and at times "personified a familiar stereotype: the rude American abroad". 
But it notes that he was, by contrast, gracious once he was in the presence of the Queen. 
The Washington Post thinks his conversion to good behaviour fits a pattern of his foreign trips. "He gives candid commentary and stokes controversy before he travels", it says, but then "rarely uses the international stage to advance an agenda or wield his influence".
For example, the Times notes that - despite some of the predictions - Mr Trump did not directly refer to Brexit in his toast on Monday night. It says he did mention "self-determination", a theme he has stressed in the past when talking about the issue. 
The Telegraph also spots a hidden Brexit signal, when he told his audience that the sacrifice made by Britons on D-Day 75 years ago "ensured that your destiny will always remain in your own hands". 
But the Express thinks the message was clear - it thinks he was toasting the end of EU "shackles", and says he is offering a "big trade deal" once it's all over.
The Daily Telegraph leads with the fact that Jeremy Corbyn is to address anti-Trump protests. It says Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt accused the Labour leader of trying to hijack the president's visit. 
The Mirror says Mr Trump is not worthy of respect. 
But the Sun says Mr Corbyn's actions are threatening Britain's special relationship with the US, and urges Mr Trump not to rise to the bait of what it calls "infantile, virtue-signalling lefties". 
And a glimpse of the future is offered by the Financial Times. It says a wave of companies are preparing to launch flying taxi services in the next few years, and regulators are rushing to draw up rules. 
The European safety agency says it will examine software, maintenance and noise pollution. 