"The end of the roaring hearth" is how the Daily Telegraph views the impending ban on coal and certain types of wood to heat our homes. 
It believes the government risks accusations that it is targeting consumers rather than industry in its efforts to cut emissions. 
The paper calls the measure "hasty" and says it is sadly reflective of an age in which - instead of trusting individuals to make the right decisions - "bans are politicians' first and only weapon of choice".  
The i newspaper - which also leads on the story - declares that cosy winter nights spent around a glowing fire are set to be consigned to the history books. 
"Two faces of hatred" is the Daily Mail's headline above reports on the murder of nine people at shisha bars in Germany by a right-wing extremist - and the knife attack at a mosque in London. 
The right-wing terror threat is, says the Daily Mirror, an evil we all must fight. The paper depicts the German gunman as a "deranged racist" who ranted about wiping out entire nations.  
The Telegraph says Muslims here have called for tighter security after a muezzin - a person who makes the call to prayer - was stabbed at London Central Mosque, near Regent's Park.
Meanwhile, the Mail uses an editorial to urge the prime minister to take a few hours out of his busy schedule to commiserate personally with people forced from their homes by flooding. 
This should be Boris at his bouncing best, it says, cheering people up and assuring them that their problems are his problems. Yet his wellingtons and waxed sou'wester have stayed firmly in the cupboard.  
The Daily Express highlights what it describes as "Britain's soft justice system" which it says has been laid bare by three burglars who were not sent to prison - despite carrying out 75 break-ins. 
The paper says the gang were given non-custodial sentences until the final offence, when one was handed a suspended jail term. 
It argues that criminals escaping justice is deeply disturbing and feeds a loss of confidence in the justice system.
The Guardian reports that Airbnb has become so prevalent in Britain that some parts of the country now have one listing for every four properties. 
It says this has prompted warnings that the rapid expansion in short-term lets is "out of control" and depriving communities of homes.
Edinburgh Old Town has the highest incidence, with 29 active listings for every 100 homes, while the north-west of Skye has 25 per 100. 
Airbnb has questioned the accuracy of the figures and said unusual listings, for example caravans, do not affect local housing stock.
Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning
In its main story, the Times claims that an unpublished report on the Home Office's "hostile environment policy" towards migrants has been toned down after originally concluding that the department was "institutionally racist".
It says the term was in an earlier draft of the Windrush review into the treatment of people from the Caribbean, but doesn't appear in more recent versions. 
The paper says there are concerns in Whitehall that members of the advisory panel which helped to write the review will go public and criticise the government if the report is subjected to significant changes. 
The Home Office said it had not had the final report and ministers had not seen any version of it.
"Dangers lurking in your toxic takeaway" is the less than appetising headline in the Daily Mail.
The paper highlights research which found that 380,000 cases of foodborne illness a year are caused by norovirus - with almost two thirds linked to eating out or takeaway meals. 
It says the figures come amid concern about a collapse in the number of hygiene checks carried out by local councils on restaurant and takeaway premises following savage budget cuts. 
In another health story, the Guardian reports the news that scientists using artificial intelligence have developed a powerful antibiotic that kills some of the most dangerous drug-resistant bacteria.
The Financial Times believes the breakthrough signals a significant new tool in the global fight against drug resistance. 
The Sun describes it as a watershed moment for the world of soap - a decision by the 93-year-old actress, June Brown, to quit EastEnders after 35 years as the chain-smoking gossip, Dot Cotton. 
In a podcast interview picked up by the paper, she says leaving Albert Square is "almost like being bereaved".
The paper says it followed "disappointment" by the veteran star with her recent storylines.
Finally, several papers publish two pencil sketches which are believed to have been drawn by the Queen when she was a child. 
One shows a middle-aged woman in profile - possibly her nanny, "Crawfie" -  while the other seems to be of the same person knitting. 
Buckingham Palace hasn't said whether the works are genuine. 