"Get booster jab and wear mask to save Christmas" is how the i sums up Health Secretary Sajid Javid's message on Covid-19, and the rising number of cases as winter approaches.    
The Guardian says he is urging MPs to "lead by example"  and wear masks in crowded spaces. But the Daily Mirror accuses the government of "dragging its feet" on implementing its so-called Plan B.  
The Daily Mail focuses on the announcement that anti-viral medication will be made available to reduce the risk of Covid hospital admissions. "Miracle pill will halve Covid death risk" is its headline.
The UK is in talks to sell missiles to Ukraine, according to a report in the Times. It says the plans would see the UK provide surface-to-surface missiles for Ukrainian patrol boats, as well as missiles for aircraft. 
Although the UK has previously sent soldiers to Ukraine for training missions, a Ukrainian source tells the paper such a deal would be the first time the UK had sold the country arms. The Times says Ukraine is worried Russia could try to exploit the current gas crisis to seize more of its territory.
"Two MPs targeted by Amess suspect" is the claim of a headline in the Daily Telegraph. The paper says sources familiar with the police investigation into the killing of Sir David Amess have indicated that the main suspect had looked into at least two MPs before Sir David was fatally stabbed last week. 
The Daily Mail says detectives are examining CCTV footage to try to pinpoint the suspect's movements in the days before the attack. 
Sign up for a morning briefing direct to your inbox
Many papers reflect on the Queen having to cancel her engagements on doctors' orders. 
The Sun's headline is "keep calm Ma'am... and don't carry on until you feel better". The Daily Mail wonders: "are we asking too much of our Queen?" The Daily Mirror points out the Queen has enjoyed remarkable health - providing a guide to what it describes as the "minor ailments" that have occasionally interrupted her schedule.
Several papers feature the plight of "Ai-Da", a glamorous humanoid artificial intelligence robot known for her drawings, painting, and sculptures. The robot was seized by Egyptian security forces as she and her owner travelled through Cairo to an art exhibition. 
"Held on Spying plot suspicions" is the Daily Mail's headline. It says officials had demanded that her eyes, which contain cameras, be removed. 
Under the headline "crossed wires", the Guardian reports that Ai-Da has now been released, with her owner insisting she's not a spy.
And the Sun and many other papers praise Tilly Ramsay, the daughter of the celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay, for her no-nonsense response to a radio presenter who commented about her appearance following her latest performance on Strictly Come Dancing. 