The Times and the Guardian say they have obtained details about the conclusions of the inquiry into allegations of lockdown parties held at Downing Street. 
The Times says the investigation is expected to say there's not enough evidence of criminality for the issue to be referred to police. The paper reports that the senior civil servant leading the inquiry, Sue Gray, is also not expected to say whether Prime Minister Boris Johnson breached the ministerial code by attending a garden party at No 10 in May 2020. 
It's understood such a conclusion does not lie within her remit, with only the prime minister himself having the power to order an inquiry into possible breaches of the code.
The Guardian reports that Ms Gray will identify a "farcical culture" of drinking and socialising at No 10 and criticise senior officials for providing "little oversight". Whitehall sources tell the paper that other drinks events are likely to be unearthed from across government buildings, with special advisers and officials urged to "come clean" about breaches of lockdown rules. 
Conservative MP Andrew Bridgen explains in the Daily Telegraph why he believes Mr Johnson should resign for attending last year's garden party. He argues that in failing to lead by example, the prime minister has "truly failed" the electorate. There is, he says, a "moral vacuum at the heart of our government".
"Throne out" is the headline on the front of the Sun, which says the decision to remove Prince Andrew's royal and military titles was one of the hardest of the Queen's 70-year reign. 
The Daily Express says Prince Andrew was "dramatically cut adrift", as the Queen sought to protect the monarchy from sexual assault allegations - claims he has consistently denied.  
The Daily Mail is among several papers to print a grainy image of Andrew being driven into Windsor Castle for his meeting with the Queen on Thursday. 
The paper says he looked "haunted" as he arrived for the "crisis summit" with his mother. The Mail reports that Prince Charles and his son the Duke of Cambridge are understood to have been "instrumental in the move to force him out". 
The Daily Mirror's royal editor Russell Myers says the Queen has once again shown there is no time for sentiment when it comes to protecting The Firm.
Sign up for a morning briefing direct to your inbox
The i reports that millions of Covid booster doses could be thrown away because not enough young adults have come forward to be jabbed. 
The paper says nine million people are eligible for a third dose who haven't yet received one, with fewer than half of those aged 18 to 34 stepping up to be boosted. 
The pace of the vaccine rollout has fallen sharply this week with just 140,000 people getting jabbed every day compared with around 800,000 at the end of December.
Microsoft Word has gone "woke", according to the Daily Mail. 
The paper says a new "inclusiveness checker" highlights typed words which could cause offence and then offers alternatives. 
Examples include tweaking Neil Armstrong's moon-landing speech so it refers to "one giant leap for humankind" rather than "mankind" and changing "Postman Pat" to "Postal Worker Pat". 