The latest Mission: Impossible film has been delayed by almost a year after production was halted because of the ongoing Hollywood actors' strike.
The eighth film in the franchise will now be released on 23 May 2025 instead of 28 June 2024, Variety reported.
Work on numerous major US films and TV shows is on hold as a result of the strike, which began in July.
Negotiations are expected to resume on Tuesday, two weeks after the last round of talks broke down.
The actors' strike is now in its 102nd day, and follows a similar strike by scriptwriters.
Films such as Disney/Marvel's Blade and Fantastic Four have already been pushed back by several months, while Avengers: The Kang Dynasty and Avengers: Secret Wars have been delayed by a year.
Paramount's untitled Spongebob Squarepants adventure has been pushed back from May 2025 to December that year.
Disney's live action version of its hit animation movie Lilo & Stitch has been moved to a date yet to be disclosed, while its live action remake of Moana has shifted to June 2025.
The third film in James Cameron's Avatar series is now due for a December 2025 release, a year after it was expected, with knock-on delays then hitting the fourth and final instalments. Dune: Part 2 has also been delayed.
Paddington in Peru, the third in the hit series based on Michael Bond's loveable bear, has also lost one of its cast, Rachel Zegler, due to the strike. She has been replaced by Spanish actress Carla Tous. The film is set for release on 8 November 2024.
A Quiet Place prequel Day One, which stars Lupita Nyong'o, will now fill the gap left by the untitled Mission: Impossible film, moving from 8 March to 28 June 2024.
TV series such as The Last of Us, Euphoria, Stranger Things and The White Lotus have also been affected.
The actors' union, Sag-Aftra, wants studios and streaming services to offer better pay, increased royalties, higher contributions to their pension and health plans, and safeguards on the use of artificial intelligence (AI) in the industry.
While the strikes last, don't expect to see Hollywood stars at film premieres, festivals, conventions or red carpets. Union rules prohibit actors from taking any work, including promotion or publicity for projects.
That prompted Emmy Awards organisers to move their ceremony from September to next January.