The University of Lincoln has won a prestigious award for its work on sustainability in the UK's food and farming industries. 
The Queen's Anniversary Prize is considered the highest national honour in UK further and higher education.
The accolade recognises the work of the university's Institute for Agri-food Technology (LIAT).
Prof Neal Juster, the university's vice chancellor, said: "We are immensely proud, thrilled and humbled to win."
According to the university, LIAT is a specialist research centre focused on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability across the food chain "from farm to fork".
Prof Juster said: "The award recognises the outstanding contribution our research and teaching is making to supporting innovation across the UK's £100bn agri-food industries.
"It also demonstrates how the focus of our research is aligned to the needs of key industries in our region," he said.
Prof Simon Pearson, founding director of LIAT, said: "The sustainable supply of high quality, nutritious food is a foundation of successful societies and economies all over the world.
"The way we produce food is also a major contributor to global greenhouse gas emissions.
"Improving productivity, efficiency and sustainability across the global food chain is therefore not just good business, it's vital to maintaining food security."
The University of Lincoln is one of 22 winners in the 15th round of the Queen's Anniversary Prize, announced on Thursday at St James's Palace.
First awarded in 1994, the awards are granted every two years following an independent review process by The Royal Anniversary Trust, an independent charity.
The trust's chair, Sir Damon Buffini, said the awards shone a light on "the groundbreaking work taking place in universities and colleges across the UK". 
"All 22 prize-winners demonstrate excellence, innovation and impact, with many tackling some of the toughest problems we, as a society, face today," he added.
The awards are due to be officially presented at a formal honours ceremony in February.