The Times carries a photo of a smiling Joe Biden as he arrives near Belfast, for the first time as the US president, to mark the Good Friday Agreement's 25th anniversary. The paper highlights his vow "to keep the peace", but also says nationalists have warned that unionists will seize on any gaffes about his Irish heritage during his visit. The Daily Express pictures Mr Biden being greeted by UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak last night, alongside the words: "Let's work on keeping the peace after 25 years." The Daily Mirror calls Mr Biden the "Peace Prez". 
The Daily Telegraph and The Daily Mail both report that a leader of the junior doctors' union, Dr Robert Laurenson, "has gone on holiday" while his colleagues strike in a row about pay. The Telegraph says it has been told that he took a week off to attend a wedding but that he is still in the UK and "actively involved" in the dispute. The Mail says Dr Laurenson had already booked time off but it is critical of his absence, saying it is "enough to make you sick". The papers carry no comments from the trainee GP.
The Guardian - which first reported on sexual misconduct claims at the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) - says City of London police have launched an investigation into the matter. The inquiry was announced after the organisation's boss, Tony Danker, was sacked over separate allegations. Mr Danker has said he was "shocked" at being dismissed instead of being asked to give his version of events. The paper says Britain's most prominent business group is now battling to secure its future. According to the Financial Times, the CBI is fighting for its reputation. 
Elsewhere the Daily Mirror warns of a "fear" of "chaos" at the King's Coronation, with little over three weeks to go. The paper says the ceremony has been plunged into turmoil by what it calls "a catalogue of late problems". Issues, it says, include a rehearsal over-running and an unfinished seating plan "due to Prince Harry dithering on his invite". But a source also tells the paper that Buckingham Palace is "confident" all will go to plan on the day.
"Wimbledon has handed Putin a win" is the headline on the front of the Daily Express. Ukraine's foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba accuses tennis chiefs at the All England Club of "lacking courage" by allowing Russian and Belarusian players at this year's tournament, after what he calls last year's "noble" decision to implement a ban. The paper warns that the Princess of Wales - as patron of the club - could be put in the "awkward position" of handing a winner's trophy to a competitor from either country. Wimbledon has said its decision was made after discussion with the UK government, the Lawn Tennis Association and international stakeholders.