A heritage railway has been named as one of five West Yorkshire projects to receive levelling up funding from government.
The Keighley and Worth Valley Railway would become a "major transport hub and commuter route," as a result of the cash, Bradford Council said.
Schemes in Wakefield, Huddersfield and Holbeck in Leeds will also be funded.
Bradford Council leader Susan Hinchliffe said the money would "create more economic opportunities".
Under the plans, signalling will be upgraded along the five-mile railway line, which links with national mainline rail services at Keighley, to enable more trains to run and the diesel fleet will be revamped.
In total the council has been awarded nearly £20m to spend on the railway and to fund a robotics and engineering research institute in Keighley town centre.
The proposed Advanced Robotics and Engineering Institute will take up to 250 undergraduate and 40 postgraduate students to study subjects including automation, artificial intelligence and computer science.
Ms Hinchcliffe said: "The town has a proud engineering and manufacturing tradition.
"This is such an exciting project which will enhance Keighley's engineering, manufacturing and economic role in the region, putting it at the forefront of UK innovation."
As part of the third round of funding, more than £16.6m will be put towards revamping Huddersfield's Northumberland Street Market.
The Grade II listed building will be transformed into a food hall with stalls and enough space to seat 300 people.
The Penistone railway line will receive nearly £48m for plans to improve connections between Huddersfield, Barnsley and Sheffield.
Leeds City Council was awarded nearly £16m for its Heart of Holbeck regeneration project, which includes upgrades to St Matthews Community Centre where charity Holbeck Together is based..
Elissa Newman, Chief officer at Holbeck Together, said: "We were so disappointed when our original funding bid was not approved earlier this year, but we have continued to develop our project with business parties across the city and this announcement comes at the perfect time to allow us to plan for further growth in our offer to the community and to improve vital local facilities. 
"This is a game changer for the future of Holbeck."
A council spokesperson said the money would also go towards improving housing conditions in about 200 homes and a "renewal" of Holbeck Moor park.
Wakefield Council will also receive more than £15m from the fund to revamp The Ridings Shopping Centre.