The hunt for the Titan submarine, which went missing while on a dive to the wreck of the Titanic on Sunday, continues to dominate the papers.
The Daily Mail carries pictures of the five people on board the sub above the headline: "24 hours left to save them". The Daily Mirror and Daily Express both have the headline: "Praying for a miracle." 
The New York Times alleges that the company behind the mission, OceanGate, had received warnings from one of its former employees about the vessel. The paper says that in 2018, the firm's then-director of marine operations, David Lochridge, had started work on a report in which he called for there to be more testing of the craft and stressed the potential danger to passengers as it reached extreme depths.  The paper says that a spokesman for OceanGate declined to comment on the five-year-old critique.
The Guardian says all in peril deserve concern, though contrasts the operation to find the sub to the response to the sinking last week of a fishing boat carrying hundreds of migrants off Greece.
"Tories face UK mortgage time bomb" is the headline on the front of the i. The paper has carried out an analysis which suggests that Conservative-held seats in the so-called Blue Wall in the south-east of England will take the biggest hit from interest rate hikes. It says the constituency of South West Surrey - represented by the chancellor, Jeremy Hunt - could be one of them. 
The Financial Times says Mr Hunt has ruled out Thatcher-era style tax breaks to help people struggling with mortgages because they might undermine efforts to "strangle" inflation. The Sun agrees such action would be unfair on "skint renters" but accuses the Bank of England of failing to act decisively when "inflation first rose".
The Daily Telegraph says a school at the centre of a row about children identifying as animals is facing a government investigation. According to the paper, a teacher at Rye College, a state secondary in East Sussex, was recorded telling a pupil that she was despicable after the child refused to accept that her classmate was a cat. A spokesman for the college says it is committed to offering pupils an inclusive education and encourages them to ask questions and engage in discussions.
The Times reports that the Wimbledon tennis championship is embracing the use of artificial intelligence to generate commentary for its app and website. The technology tracks the ball to create commentary for lower profile matches which would ordinarily be watched in silence. The paper raises the prospect of the system one day mimicking John McEnroe's voice. Its headline reads: "A-I tennis commentary? You cannot be Siri-ous".  