The Daily Mail leads with the hope that the worst of the cost of living squeeze is "nearing an end". Experts tell the paper that the energy price cap is likely to fall by £450 in the coming weeks. 
The Daily Express says bills could be driven down even further as suppliers have to start competing for business again which the Daily Telegraph hails as marking the failure of President Putin's "energy war".
A group of school leaders have written to the Times, warning that artificial intelligence poses a "clear and present danger to education". They have told the paper they have no confidence that large digital companies will be capable of regulating themselves. Instead, the group say they will create a body to advise schools on how to deal with the risks of AI.
The Financial Times carries a warning from bank bosses who say more and more consumers are relying on what's called "shadow credit" to deal with the rising cost of living. The head of NatWest tells the paper that increasing numbers of risky loans and "buy now, pay later" schemes could mean the financial system is less stable than it appears.
Chancellor Jeremy Hunt has told the Telegraph that the UK is "talking itself into economic decline". He says critics on both the left and right are creating an "insidious and "corrosive" negativity which risks creating a "self-fulfilling prophecy".
The i says Rishi Sunak is coming under pressure from some Conservative backbench MPs to rework the UK's deal with the European Union on post-Brexit trading arrangements. One former cabinet minister tells the paper the current arrangement leaves the UK in "the worst of all worlds". 
In an interview with the Daily Express, Lord Frost, who led the Brexit negotiations under Boris Johnson, says the government has been "fearful" of using the powers it gained by leaving the EU.
Soldiers are being trained to check passports at airports as part of plans to mitigate strikes by Border Force officers according to the Daily Telegraph. Sources have told the paper that members of the armed forces could also perform other roles like searching for harmful goods and safeguarding vulnerable individuals.
Labour's shadow health secretary, Wes Streeting, has told the Times that his party is willing to use "the heavy hand" of state regulation to force food companies to make their offerings healthier. He tells the paper that if his party wins the next election it could extend the sugar tax on soft drinks to other products.
The Sun has a warning for parents about how they should speak to their children about eating healthily. Under the headline "weight waffle no-no", the paper explains that experts recommend using positive language around food and exercise to encourage children into good habits.
Finally, the Daily Mirror is one of a number of papers to report on Sir Salman Rushdie's return to public life at an awards evening in New York. He suffered serious injuries after being stabbed while on stage at an event in the city last year. 