The Daily Telegraph leads on claims by supermarket bosses that a voluntary scheme to cap some food prices - which the government is considering - will not reduce shopping bills. It also warns cabinet ministers could revolt over fears the proposal could lead to shortages. 
But writing inside the Daily Express, Scott Dixson, a consumer rights expert, argues the plan is welcome, pointing out that Tesco and Sainsbury's made hundreds of millions of pounds in profit last year and saying they can and should do more to help customers.
The Financial Times, in its editorial, argues that recent high food inflation is less a result of supermarket greed, and more about the effects of Russia's war in Ukraine, as well as trade barriers that went up when Britain left the EU. It says targeted direct support from the government is preferable to price controls. 
The Guardian broke the story about the head of the Metropolitan Police, Sir Mark Rowley, saying the force will no longer attend emergency calls outs if they relate to mental health incidents. The paper says it is clear he had lost patience after years of talks between police and health chiefs, and is now forcing the issue. But the paper says the plan could cause consternation among paramedics, ambulance staff, and other NHS staff who are facing the pressure of cuts and a stretched mental health service.
British police from the National Crime Agency will be sent to Africa to break up people smuggling gangs, according to the Times. It says it is part of an international effort to stop an expected surge in migration from the continent. 
The Times also reports on a survey where nearly a quarter of mothers say they had poor maternity care which put them or their baby in danger. The paper previously reported the NHS had been spending more than twice as much on the cost of harm caused by maternity services as on maternity care itself. It says the survey raises fresh questions for a sector that's been hit by scandals. 
The controversy over Phillip Schofield still dominates the tabloids. The Daily Star and the Daily Mail highlight comments from the former This Morning regular Dr Ranj Singh, who claims he was eased out after raising concerns about a toxic culture on the show. ITV denies the allegation, saying an external review found no evidence of bullying or discrimination.
The Sun says This Morning is losing millions in advertising revenue, although ITV insist that no sponsors have pulled out. The paper also reports that all pictures of Phillip Schofield have been removed from the set in what it calls an attempt to airbrush out the scandal. The Daily Mirror says Holly Willoughby - who is currently on holiday - is determined to stay on as a host. 
The Telegraph reports that a nun in the US state of Missouri could be in line for sainthood because of claims that her body has shown no sign of decay, four years after being buried. The story is taken from the Catholic News Agency, which says that when the remains of Sister Wilhelmina Lancaster were exhumed, her Benedictine sisters claim to have found an intact body and habit. It says hundreds of pilgrims have flocked to see it for themselves. 