Several of the front pages focus on the two British teenage sisters who are missing after the Hamas attacks on Israel. The Daily Telegraph says 16 year-old Noiya, and Yahel who's 13, had been at home in Israel, a few miles from the Gaza border, when they disappeared. Their mother was killed, and their father is also missing. A relative has told the Times that the family wants the British government to do whatever it can to help find them.
The Daily Mirror and the Sun claim to have seen intelligence documents which reveal that Israeli troops will face a maze of underground tunnels full of booby-traps if they storm Gaza. The Sun says Hamas fighters could be working on plans to lure Israeli soldiers into traps, as part of the second phase of their offensive. The i also claims that Israel is preparing to fight Hamas in underground tunnels, with a security expert telling the paper that Israeli troops are currently trying to establish where hostages may be.
The US's goals of unwavering support for Israel and protecting civilians in Gaza may be irreconcilable, according to the Guardian. It says Secretary of State Antony Blinken's commitment to approve Israel's attempt to wipe out Hamas is at odds with his calls for a safe space for Palestinians in Gaza. 
Elsewhere, there are reports that Rolls Royce is preparing to cut around two-and-a-half thousand jobs as part of a major restructure. The Financial Times website says the British aerospace and defence company could make the announcement as soon as today.
Three leading musical figures have published a letter in the Times in which they say planned cuts at the English National Opera will lead to the charity's demise. Edward Gardner, Sir Mark Elder and Sir Antonio Pappano have called for an intervention, after the company's Music Director, Martyn Brabbins, resigned over plans to axe 19 jobs, and change contracts. 
The Daily Mail leads on the government's plans to release some less serious offenders from prison early, to reduce overcrowding in jails. The paper says the move will mean thieves could escape prison, despite Rishi Sunak's vow to crack down on a rise in shoplifting. In a comment piece for the Daily Express, the justice secretary Alex Chalk insisted that yesterday's announcement didn't mean that the government was "going soft on criminals".
The Daily Express is among a number of papers which report on a combination of drugs which could provide a new way to treat prostate cancer. Trials found it reversed the disease's resistance to therapy. The paper quotes one of the researchers, who said it was "tremendously exciting".