The front pages of the Times and the Daily Telegraph both highlight Elon Musk's claim that artificial intelligence (AI) will eradicate the need for all jobs in the future.
The Times says he made the comment during an "unprecedented" interview with Rishi Sunak, after the prime minister struck a deal for governments and spy agencies to vet new AI models before they are allowed to be used.
According to the Guardian, Mr Sunak was "forced to defend" the voluntary nature of the agreement with tech giants, including Google and Facebook-owner Meta. The government has declined to legislate to rein in AI development.
An image of a smiling Matt Hancock features on the front of the Daily Mirror, after the Covid Inquiry heard a claim that the then-health secretary believed he should decide who lived or died, should the NHS become overwhelmed by the pandemic. "The Grin Reaper," says the paper's headline.
The Mirror's editorial argues the "terrifying revelation" is "another nail in the reputation" of Mr Hancock - who it describes as "frankly not up to the job".
The Daily Star agrees, saying that at a time when everyone in charge was either an absolute wally or a charlatan, he was "vying for the title of absolute worst".
Israel's ambassador to the UK has told the Telegraph that London feels less safe for Jews than Israel. Speaking after a number of pro-Palestinian rallies were held in the capital, Tzipi Hotovely says the "jihad ideology" witnessed on the streets is causing fear among the Jewish community.
The Sun has published photos of the Jewish Coronation Street actress, Maureen Lipman, being shadowed by a security guard while filming on location in case she's the victim of an antisemitic attack. Its editorial says the pictures "shame Britain" and urges police to "wake up" and protect Jews at all costs.
The Daily Mail has details of what it calls "the most anticipated political book of the year". Written by the former Cabinet minister, Nadine Dorries, The Plot: The Political Assassination of Boris Johnson contains a claim that a powerful Number 10 fixer known as Dr No cut up a rabbit and nailed it to his ex-girlfriend's home in a Mafia-style threat.
The Mail - which is serialising the book - says Ms Dorries has accused the government of a "desperate" bid to block its publication, after Whitehall officials said her refusal to reveal its contents in advance could lead to her being blacklisted from public jobs, including a peerage.
A number of papers review what's been billed as the last-ever Beatles song, after yesterday's release of Now And Then.
The Guardian gives the track four stars, describing it as a "moody, reflective piano ballad" that's an effective "act of closure". The song gets the same score from The Telegraph, which says it's a "loving but dreary attempt to recapture the magic".  
The Times isn't so keen, describing it as "not such a fab reunion" and giving it three stars, but the Sun is convinced. Awarding the track four-and-a-half stars, it says that "for those of us to whom the Beatles mean so much, to hear the other three bring John Lennon's 1978 demo to life makes for a moving four minutes and eight seconds".