A council is using people's mobile phone movements to get an insight into shoppers' habits in two Leicestershire market towns.
New devices to monitor visitor numbers have been installed in town centres in Market Harborough and Lutterworth.
Harborough District Council said the information would inform decisions around business hours and where further investment might be needed.
The three-year project has received £69,700 from the government.
The council said the state-of-the-art footfall sensors had been placed in key areas in the town centres to measure unique signals from people's mobile phones.
It tracks people who have registered to use its free wi-fi service as they move around certain areas.
The authority said people's unique mobile phone signals were not used for other purposes and were not traced back to individuals.
It said the electronic devices collected data to show patterns such as busiest days of the week and busiest times, how long shoppers are in town and which areas attract the most visitors.
Brian Alcock, from Leicester, who was visiting Market Harborough, said: "I can't really see how getting the information would actually influence what the council could do to promote the town."
However, the 65-year-old added it would not "bother" him if his phone was tracked as technology was evolving.
A 60-year-old shopper, from Leicester, said she felt it was "bang out of order", and hopes it will not be implemented in the city.
Sally Hilliard, 65, from Northampton, added: "I don't like the idea of being monitored. All this artificial intelligence is not a nice thought."
The authority said information would also enable businesses to better understand people's movements and make more informed choices on opening hours and days they choose to close, as well as helping to review the success of town centre public events.
It said although both town centres were "bucking the national trend... and remain resilient and vibrant" with a mix of independent businesses and local services and loyal shoppers, the data would give the council a better picture of shopper and visitor behaviour, trends and changes.
The sensors in Market Harborough have been placed in High Street, The Indoor Market, Church Street and The Square, which is the free public wi-fi access zone.
The Lutterworth system is being finalised with three sensors between Church Street and High Street.
Council leader Phil Knowles, who is also the cabinet lead for culture, leisure, economy, and tourism, said: "Understanding the footfall patterns in our town centres is crucial for making informed decisions that support our local businesses and enhance the overall experience for residents and visitors. 
"This investment shows we value our town centres and want them to continue to thrive."
The council was awarded the money from the government's £2.6bn UK Shared Prosperity Fund - part of the levelling up agenda - allocated for local investment by March 2025. 