Many of the front pages carry photos of a smiling King Charles, showing his gratitude to the nation for the support he's received after his cancer diagnosis. "My heartfelt thanks to you" is the headline in the Sunday Mirror.
But the Mail on Sunday reports that books already for sale online about the King's health, which are purportedly written by real authors, are actually created by Artificial Intelligence. The paper says they contain false claims.  It quotes a statement from Buckingham Palace, which says that the accounts are "intrusive" and "insensitive", and its lawyers are looking into the issue.  
The Sunday Telegraph says that judges have raised concerns that some church leaders are being "duped" by "insincere" asylum seekers converting to Christianity to avoid being deported. It's a story which has prompted the former Archbishop of Canterbury, Lord Carey, to respond, by saying that the Church of England's opposition to the government's Rwanda legislation is partly to blame. In a leader for the paper he writes that the Church's hierarchy seems to be "denying that there is a problem with migration at all". It's a situation, he says, that is changing the lives and communities of the poorest in society, and he urges bishops to do "much more" to listen to them.
"Criminals using courts chaos to evade justice" is the headline in the Independent On Sunday. The paper says it's been told that criminals are pleading not guilty and relying on what it describes as "crippling" trial delays to manipulate the system. It's obtained figures which it says suggest that the number of cases waiting more than three years for a verdict has "skyrocketed" at least seven-fold since 2019, and the proportion of early guilty pleas has fallen by nearly half in four years.
The front page of the Sunday Times carries a warning from the Housing Secretary Michael Gove that his party must urgently appeal to younger people, or risk them turning their backs on capitalism and democracy. Mr Gove says housing and the fact that young people struggle to get on the property ladder is a key issue. The paper quotes him as saying that a failure to address the housing crisis will make people feel they are being "shut out". 
The Observer leads with claims from within the Conservative party that losses at the up-coming by-elections in Wellingborough and Kingswood on Thursday have already been "priced in". It says one senior figure has told the paper that "defeatism" has set in with the party having descended into a "death spiral" and it reports that some MPs are predicting fresh attacks on Rishi Sunak's leadership as they accuse him of surrendering to Labour without a proper fight in two formerly safe Tory seats.
And the Sunday Express reveals that the biggest gripe among people who work in offices is colleagues who just won't stop talking. Nearly one in four of those surveyed said that constant babbling was the bane of their lives, closely followed by the office internet going down, and hearing other peoples' mobile phone text message alerts. 