A university has created a new role to help educate staff and students on sustainability and climate change. 
Dr Georgina Gough is now the professor of education for sustainable development at the University of the West of England (UWE) in Bristol.
It comes after a free climate course was introduced, following calls from students.
Dr Gough said she wants to "use education to make society better" in her role.
UWE pro vice chancellor Elena Marco said the appointment would help the university stay at the "forefront of education for sustainable development".
"Her {Dr Gough's] passion, drive and attention to detail will ensure we deliver on our commitment to make the world a better place," she added.
Under the new role, Dr Gough, who took up the post in December 2023, will oversee how sustainability is integrated into UWE's teaching, research and learning.
She is one of only three professors in the UK with the remit.
"I see my role not only as the expert in sustainable development who has all the answers, but as a catalyst for creation and curation of a community practice within the institution where everybody feels they've got a contribution to make," she said.
Dr Gough is also a founding member of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Alliance, an organisation which works to implement the United Nation's (UN) climate plans.
In 2015, every UN Member state adopted the SDG goals, which include tackling challenges such as poverty, inequality, climate change and peace and justice.
UWE's curriculum has been guided by the SDGs since they were introduced.
The university has offered a postgraduate course in Sustainable Development in Practice for more than 10 years.
More than 400 students have graduated from the course since it began - including Udoka Dumebi from Nigeria.
Since graduating, Ms Dumebi has worked as a sustainability consultant to assist businesses in producing training materials, manuals and reports which offers insights into sustainable practices.
She also works part time at UWE, supporting student welfare and success.
"I thought I had an idea [about sustainability], but studying it opened my mind to a lot of opportunities and things I was never aware of," she said.
"We're trying to protect the environment for the future generations and for our children... It's paramount that we educate people," she added.