Several papers report that the Prince of Wales' plea for a pause in the fighting in Gaza was done in co-operation and alignment with the Foreign Office. The i quotes government sources as saying his comments will "help boost Britain's diplomatic voice". The Daily Mail's columnist, Richard Kay, claims Prince William "is well intentioned", but warns he could be "heading for uncharted waters". The Daily Telegraph says Israeli officials were caught off-guard by his comments, which they consider to be "naive".
The Sun leads on the Trident missile that misfired and crashed into the ocean off Florida, yards away from the British nuclear submarine that launched it. The paper quotes a source as saying "it just went plop" and sank. It says a frantic probe then began to find out what went wrong. The Ministry of Defence tells the paper an "anomaly occurred" - but said the nuclear deterrent remained "effective".
The Guardian reports that Sir Keir Starmer is facing the threat of revolt over Gaza - despite changing his stance, and calling for an immediate ceasefire. The paper says Labour is trying to ward off another party split in Wednesday's Commons vote. One Labour source tells the Guardian an amendment to the more blunt SNP motion on Gaza "should be enough to avoid another major rebellion". But the paper says Labour officials believe that a major revolt could be on the cards if the Commons speaker chooses a government amendment ahead of the Labour one. 
The Financial Times says Kemi Badenoch has been plunged into a fresh political storm - this time over trade talks with Canada. The paper says Ottawa has insisted that the discussions, in which the business secretary says she is engaged, do not exist. The chair of the business and trade committee - the Labour MP, Liam Bryne, is quoted as saying Ms Badenoch must now explain why the Canadians' account is "so utterly at variance" with what she told the Commons. The Department for Business and Trade have not immediately commented. 
A Gulag expert tells Tthe Times he fears Alexei Navalny was killed by a punch to the heart, after being exposed to freezing conditions for hours - a technique once taught to KGB operatives. Vladimir Osechkin is quoted as saying that bruising apparently found on the Russian opposition leader's body was consistent with the "one-punch" technique. The Daily Mirror's front page leads on a warning for other critics of President Putin. The activist, Bill Browder, tells the Mirror the Russian president will now "embark on a killing spree", with 12 targets at risk in Britain. 
The Times says Elon Musk has disclosed that the first person to have been fitted with a brain implant by his company Neuralink - is "doing well", and is able to "move a computer mouse around the screen by thinking". The paper says the billionaire's ultimate aim is to create a mass-market device that would connect users' minds with computers, to achieve what it calls "symbiosis with artificial intelligence".