The Daily Telegraph claims the UK experienced a record number of excess deaths last year because of repeated NHS strikes and the continued cost of the pandemic. The paper's analysis suggests nearly 53,000 more people died in 2023 than normal.
The Guardian focuses on the strike by junior doctors - and says hospital chiefs can ask the doctor's union to let them work if an emergency arises. But it says it's unclear whether the BMA will agree that a hospital being laid low by winter pressures counts as a "major incident."
According to The Daily Mail, police in the UK are investigating the first ever case of rape inside a virtual reality video game - after a child's avatar was sexually assaulted by a group of characters.  The paper says detectives think the girl - who was wearing a headset - suffered the same psychological trauma as someone who had been raped in the real world. One senior officer tells the Mail that sexual offending in virtual environments is now 'rife'. But the paper says prosecutions are unlikely, because current legislation refers to sexual assault as a physical act. 
The i newspaper reports that the Home Office is using a private British firm currently deployed in combat zones in Ukraine to assist in its response to the small boats crisis. The paper says the company is using artificial intelligence to help the government vet people crossing the Channel and locate migrant smugglers. Writing in the Daily Express, the prime minister says Britons are "generous" but there is "nothing reasonable or generous about allowing illegal migration."
The Guardian has been speaking to the new head of Ofsted, Sir Martyn Oliver, and says he has committed to halt school inspections until assessors get training on protecting the wellbeing of staff. The paper says only emergency safeguarding visits will go ahead this week. He says the death of the primary headteacher Ruth Perry - who took her own life after an inspection - has been a "great shock". 
The Daily Mirror reports that Prince Andrew has avoided a sexual assault claim, after an accuser failed to meet a legal deadline. The paper says the accuser had until a month ago to file her case, but did not do so.
The Times says scientists have discovered a protein that could hold a key to keeping ageing and disease at bay. The paper says researchers in Japan believe HKDC1 helps clear damaged mitochondria, which act like batteries to produce energy within cells and keep them healthy. The study says finding treatments to boost levels of the protein could help to keep people younger for longer. One scientist says the protein "helps to take out the mitochondrial trash", by stopping cells lingering for too long.