A police force is installing touch-screen terminals in supermarkets in a bid to improve crime reporting rates.
The devices are being rolled out in Morrison's stores across Bedfordshire - with the first installed in Shefford. 
The force said the screens were first installed at libraries and at the University of Bedfordshire - and Cranfield University.
Shoppers can also use the terminals to submit intelligence, access victim support and give the force feedback.
Bedfordshire's Conservative Police and Crime Commissioner, Festus Akinbusoye, said he hoped the technology would make it easier for more people to access police services.
He said the devices would also benefit people who had "issues with internet at their home or are afraid to make reports".
"When we trialled this in the library we found a high level of people who were reporting domestic abuse," Mr Akinbusoye said.
"For some reason they were not doing that at home or in other areas."
The Labour candidate for Bedfordshire PCC, John Tizard, welcomed the new way to access the police, but said he remained sceptical of their success.
"On their own they are insufficient, what we need is much more access to the police through more community officers and more recourses in our call centres," he said.
"We also have to ensure there is proper security and privacy for people using the facility within a supermarket."
Shefford resident Hannah Scott liked the terminals for providing a "more subtle" method of contacting the police.
The 23-year-old had recently moved to the town from Hertfordshire and thought the technology could be helpful in certain circumstances.
"They are probably a good idea for things like domestic abuse, if people want to do it quite quietly," she said.
"Or if somebody's hemmed your car in you can just put it in on the terminal."
Steve Coxon, who also lives in the town, thought the the touchscreen panels could benefit some people in the community.
The 53-year-old said: "Not everybody finds the internet easy to access. It's good to have it accessible because it's harder to get through to people on the phone."
He also believed that a supermarket was a good location for the equipment.
"I feel good about myself when I've paid for my shopping - so that's the point. I think 'let's put the world to rights' as well."