JERUSALEM, Israel -- State-of-the-art military systems play a critical role in Israel's ability to defend itself.
Earlier this week, Defense Minister Moshe Ya'alon and President Reuven Rivlin presented the coveted Israel Security Prize to individuals who helped create and manufacture systems that make the IDF one of the most advanced military forces in the world.
While the majority of awards are for classified projects, several, including the Digital Ground Army system, are not, the Jerusalem Post reported.
Elbit Systems -- working with the IDF Ground Forces Command and the Defense Ministry's Research, Weapons, Development and Technology Infrastructure Administration -- developed the Digital Ground Army system to manage combat operations more effectively.
The system provides an image of the battleground and a "joint language" to commanders and unit headquarters, which greatly decreases friendly fire incidents.
Streaming data and real-time digital images provide soldiers in day-to-day security details and on the battlefield with a more complete operational picture.
According to the report, Digital Ground Army provides data streaming to thousands of soldiers from the General Staff to regional commands, operational unit headquarters and mobile unit headquarters.
Soldiers manning armored vehicles, tanks, artillery guns, command vehicles and patrols can access the data simultaneously.
Elbit President and CEO Betzalel Machlis praised employees "for their professionalism, investment, and advanced abilities."
"We will continue our close cooperation with the defense establishment to find additional ground-breaking and life-saving solutions," Machlis said.
Other awards went to an Intelligence Directorate team, honored for innovative research and new technology for classified intelligence and other key components for Israel's national security.
Two teams from the Prime Minister's Office, one working with Rafael Advanced Systems and with IDF Military Intelligence received awards.
Ya'alon told recipients most Israelis "are not really aware of the size of your contribution and the significance of your work for their security and the security of our country."