JERUSALEM, Israel -- A group that Israel says is connected to Hamas has just been welcomed into the United Nations. 
The United Nations Committee on Non-Governmental Organizations granted NGO status to the British-based Palestinian Return Center (PRC), an organization promoting anti-Israel propaganda in Europe.
Israel's Foreign Ministry protested the decision, citing PRC's history, which openly denies Israel's right to exist, opposes the peace process, and supports the so called right of return for Arabs who left at the start of Israel's 1948 War of Independence. 
The group's logo shows an "R," representing "return," superimposed on a kaffiyeh (Arab scarf). Inside is a tiny map showing Palestine in place of Israel, similar to the Palestinian Authority's map on its official stationery.
According to Israel's Intelligence and Information Center, senior members of PRC serve with other pro-Palestinian organizations that fund Hamas.
The U.N.'s decision to award NGO status to the group will help it promote its anti-Israel agenda globally in part by providing access to U.N. committees, such as the Human Rights Council, and by allowing attendance at U.N. sessions as an independent agency.
Israeli U.N. Ambassador Ron Proser said the decision welcomes Hamas at its "main entrance."
"Until today, the U.N. has given Hamas discounts and let it strengthen its activities," Proser said. "Now, the U.N. went one step further and gave Hamas a welcoming celebration at its main entrance, allowing it to be a full participant."
"According to this script, one day we may find [the Lebanese-based terror group] Hezbollah sitting at the Security Council and ISIS voting at the Human Rights Council," he said. "This is the peak season for the UN's Theatre of the Absurd."
In 2010, former Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak accused PRC of serving as Hamas' organizational wing in Europe. Barak said the PRC coordinated its activities with top Hamas members, including officials in Damascus.
Hamas politburo Khaled Meshaal headquartered in Damascus for more than 10 years, leaving when Syria's civil war made life there too dangerous. 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has repeatedly said the demand for the right of return for descendants of Arab refugees is tantamount to calling for the destruction of the Jewish state. 