Kayla Mueller was repeatedly raped by ISIS leader Abu Bakr Baghdadi. The parents of the American woman, who was killed while being held captive by the terror group, confirmed the U.S. government told them about the sexual abuse suffered by their daughter.
Read more of the story here and CBN News Commentary below 
Her father, Carl Mueller told the Associated Press about their conversation, "They told us that he married her, and we all understand what that means."
Mueller's mother Marsha said she knows it was forced, "Kayla did not marry this man. He took her to his room and he abused her and she came back crying."
ISIS is known not only for beheading and crucifying its male captives for holding females as sex slaves.
A 14-year-old Yazidi girl who was being held with Mueller and others managed to escape captivity. She told U.S. commandos about the repeated raping of Mueller and others. U.S. intelligence agencies finally confimed the account and passed the information on to Mueller's parents.
The teenager also told U.S. soldiers that Mueller tried to shiedl them from abuse and ultimately decided not to escape with them since she was American and would draw attention to them.
"Kayla tried to protect these young girls. She was like a mother figure to them," Mueller's mother said.
Mueller was killed in February. ISIS said she died in a Jordanian air strike. Her death was confirmed by U.S. agents but not the claims by ISIS.
Commentary by CBN's Erick Stakelbeck, Senior Terrorism Analyst and host of The Watchman
Sadly, Al-Baghdadi's use of Kayla Mueller as a sex slave is not surprising. ISIS's leadership has specifically condoned sex slavery in various publications and statements, and ISIS foot soldiers have followed suit. 
ISIS has systematically enslaved women and young, pre-teen girls from the Yazidi minority in Iraq and are using the prospect of sex with them as a recruiting tool. Girls as young as 9 and 10 years old are held captive and raped repeatedly by ISIS fighters in Iraq and Syria and the group actually holds modern day slave markets where Yazidi women and girls are bought and sold. 
ISIS considers these non-Muslim women to be inhuman--infidels--and therefore born to be enslaved under Islamic Sharia law. Again, this view comes from the very top leadership of ISIS, so Baghdadi--the group's overall leader--clearly believes, practices and sanctions it. Not only was Kayla Mueller a non-Muslim "infidel"; she was also American, a fact which undoubtedly led her to suffer even harsher abuse at the hands of Al-Baghdadi. 