Federal prosecutors have convened a grand jury to investigate Noor Salman, the wife of the Orlando nightclub shooter.  
The FBI interviewed Salman, Omar Mateen's second wife, in the days since Sunday's deadly mass shooting that killed 49 people and wounded 53 others.
Officials believe Salman knew of her husband's plans and did nothing to stop him. She allegedly went with him to buy ammo prior to the attack and also visited the Pulse nightclub with him at least once.  
Federal prosecutors are seeking to charge her as an accessory to 49 counts of murder and 53 counts of attempted murder, as well as failure to notify law enforcement about the pending terrorist attack. 
The shooting has also raised terrorism as a major political issue once again.
Hours after the attack, Republican presumptive nominee Donald Trump said President Obama should resign for refusing to use the words "radical Islamic terrorism."
"This Orlando attack was just absolutely horrendous and, yet, he still doesn't even use the word(s) of radical Islamic terror," he said. 
The president fired back on Tuesday, saying using that term doesn't change anything. 
"There is no magic to the phrase "radical Islam," Obama responded.  "It is a political talking point. It is not a strategy. Not once has an advisor of mine said, 'man, if we really use that phrase, we are going to turn this whole thing around,' not once."
"They know full well who the enemy is," he added. "So do the intelligence and law enforcement officers who spend countless hours disrupting plots and protecting all Americans, including politicians who tweet."
Trump responded during a rally in Greensboro, North Carolina.  
"I watched President Obama today and he was more angry at me than he was at the shooter," he said. "The level of anger, that's the kind of anger that he should have for the shooter and these killers that shouldn't be here."
As ISIS continues to call for attacks in America, the political battle over how to take on terrorism will be a major issue all the way to November.