A massive manhunt is underway, possibly for two terrorists who may have been involved in the Brussels attacks.
Police are trying to catch them before they spread more death and destruction elsewhere in Europe.
Fear and Grief
It's an all too familiar scene in Europe: another memorial to the dead victims of terror. Last November in France and now in Belgium.
More candles, more tributes and friends and relatives are still searching for the missing. One of the missing is Emily Eisenman's boyfriend, 21-year-old Bart Migom.
"I just really, really want to know if he is okay, that I'll see him again and that his family will see him again," Eisenman said.
Others were relieved to learn their loved ones were okay.
Manhunt Underway
The Brussels airport may reopen this weekend. In the meantime, a massive manhunt is underway for at least one of the terrorists responsible for Tuesday's attack and others who may be plotting more acts of terror.
Click play to hear why Emanuele Ottolenghi, with the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, thinks Belgium has been "ground zero" for radical Islam terrorism for a long time.
So far, police have identified the three suicide bombers and discovered that one of them, 24-year-old bomb maker Najim Laachraoui, was also involved in the November attacks in Paris.
The big question now? How many more Islamic State terrorists are out there and was this an isolated attack or part of a much larger, wider-scale operation?
The Associated Press reports European and Iraqi intelligence officials estimate at least 400 ISIS fighters have been trained to launch a deadly wave of attacks throughout Europe. Some may have entered Europe as part of last summer's massive wave of migrants from the Middle East.
Critics: Time for Europe to Wise Up
So, what should be done now? Some say despite all the terrorist attacks in the last several years, European governments have still been too lax in recent years and need to wisen up.
Members of the European Parliament are gathering for an emergency meeting to discuss future anti-terrorism efforts.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry is on his way to Europe. He'll spend his Good Friday in Brussels, sharing condolences from the people of the United States.
Meanwhile in Brussels, many people fear their lives will never be the same.