A recent raid by U.S. Special Forces has led to a major breakthrough in the war against the Islamic State.
They captured a key ISIS chemical weapons operative. And he's provided information confirming that ISIS is using sulfur mustard gas against the people of Iraq and Syria. 
U.S. Special Forces captured the head of the Islamic State's chemical weapons development program last month in northern Iraq. Sleiman Daoud al-Afari once worked for Saddam Hussein specializing in chemical and biological weapons production.
He provided U.S. officials with valuable intelligence about how the Islamic State had weaponized sulfur mustard gas and loaded it into artillery shells.
The information led to U.S. airstrikes like this one against suspected chemical weapons sites near Mosul.
Despite the newly obtained intelligence,  Iraqi Defense Minister Khalid Al-Obeidi denies that ISIS is using mustard gas in Iraq.
"Daesh (Islamic State Group) doesn't have chemical weapons. The Daesh fighters sometimes use the gas of chlorine which is ineffective chemically. But they use it more. By using it (chlorine gas), Daesh tries to affect the morale of Iraqi soldiers. But we are ready to repulse and defeat them," he insisted.
But in recent weeks, CBN News has reported information verifying the newly obtained intelligence.
In mid-February, we first reported confirmation of ISIS chemical weapons use. The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons said soil samples it had obtained tested positive for sulfur mustard gas.
The following week, CBN News military correspondent Chuck Holton--on the front lines in northern Iraq--showed  evidence of chemical laden mortar shells. One Kurdish soldier victimized by a gas attacks collapsed.in front of our camera  as a doctor examined him.
American David Eubank, of the Free Burma Rangers was on location at the time training Kurdish Peshmerga soldiers.
He told CBN News, "We just don't know. Is it chlorine, is it mustard, or is it something else?  And that's why we need people to come and test this. The doctor was appealing, please come, someone come and test so we know one, what it is so we can treat our people. two, so we know how to  guard against it if we get hit again."
Meanwhile, in London  another major counter-terrorism intelligence breakthrough. British intelligence, MI6  announced it has obtained a cache of names of ISIS recruits and their family members.
According to the Daily Mail, it's a treasure trove of information leaked by a disgruntled jihadi. 22,000 names, addresses, phone numbers, family contacts, and even the names of personal Islamic State recruiters. And it's all contained on a memory stick.
The Mail reports the information is a goldmine of intelligence, and the biggest ISIS intelligence haul ever uncovered.