FBI records released Monday show a senior State Department official wanted to reduce the classification level of one of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's emails as part of a proposed bargain.
That proposal would have granted the FBI the ability to send more agents to Iraq. It was not known right away if the State Department's Undersecretary for Management Patrick Kennedy or the FBI initiated the proposal, according to The Associated Press.
The FBI denied the request, and both the agency and the State Department say no such deal happened.
Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon said when it came to the decisions to reclassify material that had been received by then-Secretary of State Clinton, strong disagreement existed between government agencies. Fallon said Clinton's campaign had no role in that debate.
Meanwhile, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, and the House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., are calling for the removal of Kennedy.
"We find Under Secretary Kennedy's actions extremely disturbing," they said in a statement released Monday. "Those who receive classified intelligence should not barter in it -- that is reckless behavior with our nation's secrets."
"Someone who would try to get classification markings doctored should not continue serving in the State Department or retain access to classified information," the statement continued. "Therefore, President Obama and Secretary Kerry should immediately remove Under Secretary Kennedy pending a full investigation."
In addition, the non-profit and non-partisan watchdog Judicial Watch said the documents also present details on their investigation into open source information related to Clinton's emails.
"Judicial Watch sought to uncover any evidence from open sources on the Internet as to whether Hillary Clinton's government emails had been hacked and were publically available," Tom Fitton, Judicial Watch president, said.
"Having uncovered evidence from open source data of possible hacking and the existence of a document that might be classified, Judicial Watch's expert on the matter immediately contacted the FBI and turned his initial findings over to the agency," he continued.