Hillary Clinton's email scandal is nipping at her heels again Wednesday, even as she tries to focus on winning South Carolina's Democratic primary this Saturday and a dozen more states on Super Tuesday next week.
U.S. District Court Judge Emmet G. Sullivan ruled Tuesday that Clinton's top aides can be questioned under oath about whether the former secretary of state deliberately sought to thwart open records laws by using a private email server.
A legal watchdog group called Judicial Watch is investigating Clinton's use of that private email server, and has indicated it may seek to depose Clinton under oath.
Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton called Sullivan's order "a major victory for the public's right to know the truth about Hillary Clinton's email system."
The group's lawsuit stems from a Freedom of Information Act request seeking records related to the employment status of Huma Abedin, Clinton's former deputy chief of staff. 
A longtime confidante, Abedin was allowed to work simultaneously for both the State Department and the Clintons' private foundation. She is now vice chair of Clinton's 2016 campaign organization.
"The court-ordered discovery will help determine why the State Department and Mrs. Clinton, even despite receiving numerous FOIA requests, kept the record system secret for years," Fitton said.
The judge ordered Judicial Watch to submit its plan by March 15, the date of Democratic Party primaries in Florida, Ohio, North Carolina, Missouri and Illinois. The group said it will seek to depose under oath both current and former officials of the State Department, and potentially Clinton herself.
No matter how much progress Clinton makes toward winning the Democratic presidential slot, the email scandal still looms over a potential nomination.
Earlier this week Republican front runner Donald Trump even told Fox News' Sean Hannity he's leaving open the possibility of prosecuting Hillary Clinton over her email violations if he's elected president.
Last month, an inspector general for the intelligence communit revealed a disturbing new discovery about Clinton's email scandal.
Charles McCullough informed Congress that dozens of additional emails with classified information had been uncovered on Clinton's private email server. 
And he said some of those emails included information beyond the "Top Secret" classification.