WASHINGTON – Reports that Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee met on White House grounds with a source about U.S. spy agencies had Washington and cable networks buzzing Monday.
White House press secretary Sean Spicer fielded questions about Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., who met with a source to find out how U.S. intelligence agencies reportedly and "inadvertently" surveyed Trump and his associates during routine targeting of foreigners' communications. 
"I'm not going to get into who he met with or why he met with them," Spicer said. He added later, "I don't know what he found.
Nunes has not revealed his source in this case. 
What's Next for Obamacare
Spicer also talked with reporters about repealing and replacing Obamacare. Monday's press briefing was the first since GOP leaders pulled the vote from the House on Friday because there were not enough votes to pass it.
"I think it's a two-way street and that we have been willing to listen to folks and their ideas and the president's advice is if we can come up with a resolution to move forward, I'll certainly entertain that," said Spicer.
President Donald Trump is now looking ahead over budget and tax plans. But there is concern with Friday's White House failure that Americans won't see tax reform. 
Sanctuary Cities on Notice
Before Spicer spoke, Attorney General Jeff Sessions got behind the podium to take aim at states that refuse to enforce Immigration laws. 
"I strongly urge the nation's states, cities and counties to consider carefully the harm they are doing to their citizens by refusing to enforce our immigration law," Sessions said.
Trump's Son-in-Law on Russian Interference
The talk turned to President Trump's son-in-law, who has volunteered to answer questions before the Senate Intelligence Committee about arranging meetings with the Russian ambassador and other officials. 
Jared Kushner has agreed to speak to the committee which continues to conduct an investigation into Russia's interference in the 2016 election. 