JERUSALEM, Israel –Iran's Supreme National Security Council Secretary said Tuesday that Iran will continue to supply deadly weapons to its proxies in Lebanon and Gaza so they can respond to Israel's "acts of stupidity with hellfire."
Those "acts of stupidity" refer to Israel's retaliatory strikes against the Iranian regime. Last Monday, Israel's Air Force pounded Iranian targets in Syria after Iran launched a rocket at Israeli citizens in the Golan Heights.
Iran also funds Hezbollah's terror tunnels on Lebanon's border with Israel. Israel recently announced it completed a six-week mission to destroy several terror tunnels from Hezbollah.
However, Secretary Ali Shamkhani said the tunnels are an embarrassment for Israel.
"There is no greater shame to the Zionist entity, which claims to have superior intelligence capabilities, than the fact that tunnels—hundreds of kilometers long—had been dug under this entity's nose," he said.
While speaking at Iran's National Security Conference on Space Technologies, Shamkhani said the regime will continue perfecting its missiles.
"Iran has no scientific or operational restriction for increasing the range of its military missiles, but based on its defensive doctrine, it is continuously working on increasing the precision of the missiles," Shamkhani said according to Ynet.
Iran's threats come during a dangerous power struggle over Syria between Russia, Iran, Turkey, and the Syrian government.
Iran has entrenched itself in Syria, posing a direct threat to the Jewish State.
The Institute for National Security Studies (INSS), one of Israel's leading think tanks, says a northern war with Iran is Israel's biggest threat in 2019.
"The gravest threat we face is not the third Lebanon war, but the first northern war – simultaneous conflict with Hezbollah in Lebanon, Syria, and Iran, which Hamas in the south is likely to join," Maj-Gen (res.) Amos Yadlin, head of the INSS said. "Israel of 2019 is a strong country, the IDF is extremely powerful and deters our enemies. The challenge is to take this strength and use it to reinforce correct policy."