Democratic Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee Adam Schiff has announced his panel will launch a broad new investigation into President Donald Trump's tax returns, business and ties to Russia.
The announcement comes after the president criticized "partisan investigations" in his State of the Union address Tuesday night.
"An economic miracle is taking place in the United States — and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations," Trump said. "If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation."
Following the speech, Schiff told reporters, "We are not going to be intimidated or threatened by the president to withhold any legislative advancement if we do our proper oversight — we're going to do our proper oversight."
The following day, the Democratic leader made the announcement that House panel would be broadening the parameters of its investigation of President Trump and his believed Russian affiliates. House lawmakers will examine "whether any foreign actor has sought to compromise or holds leverage, financial or otherwise, over Donald Trump, his family, his business, or his associates."
President Trump took to Twitter Wednesday to criticize Schiff's efforts. 
"So now Congressman Adam Schiff announces, after having found zero Russian Collusion, that he is going to be looking at every aspect of my life, both financial and personal, even though there is no reason to be doing so," tweeted Trump. "The Dems and their committees are going 'nuts.' The Republicans never did this to President Obama, there would be no time left to run government. I hear other committee heads will do the same thing. Even stealing people who work at White House! A continuation of Witch Hunt!"
 
CBS News reports the committee's first act will be to authorize the transmission of all the transcripts of witness testimony from the House Russia investigation to the special counsel. 
"The American people have a right to know — indeed, a need to know — that the president is acting on their behalf and not for some pecuniary or other reason," Schiff said. "That pertains to any credible allegations of leverage by the Russians or the Saudis or anyone else."
Meanwhile, other Democratic chairs are allegedly joining Schiff in investigating the administration. The chairs of the House Foreign Affairs and Oversight committees have already stated their intentions to investigate some of the administration's policy choices.
Last December, the House Intelligence Committee voted to share the transcript of Trump adviser Roger Stone's testimony with the special counsel. A month later, Stone was arrested on multiple counts of obstruction, false testimony, and witness tampering. 